---
title: "Berenfaer - their Origins"
date: 2018-03-26
author: odysseas
---

If one asks the historians or the analysts, one will hear of merchants. Since
the 36th century, small-fry businessmen and peddlers in Zolkar and the
northwest coast of Karokh developed a habit of banding together in low-profile
associations to protect their interests and the interests of their respective
communities against the surge of piracy and those who wielded greater power,
whether political, social or fiscal. They answered thievery with thievery,
discreetly and conservatively, always in ways that ensured their staying off
the spotlight while keeping their people from going hungry. Over time those
widespread guilds were consolidated into networks of differing mindsets yet
mutual interests. Thus the late 40th century and the end of the hostilities in
Karokh saw what was now known as the Berenfaer firmly established in their
home turf, yet unwilling to branch out towards the rest of the world. They
have since receded or progressed in sudden leaps, whether that means
disappearing for centuries and rumoured to be disbanded, or overthrowing a
long-standing slaver state in a matter of months and immediately sticking
their noses in the affairs of other nations.  

If one asks the storytellers, one shall hear tales of bravery and sacrifice.
Stories speak of a charismatic elf that went by the name of Berenfaer
(allegedly meaning "a soul most bold" in ancient elven, pronounced be-ren-FA-
er) who roamed the land, who fought and plotted in shadow and light to
undermine villainous nobles and bloodthirsty tyrants, who cared for the common
man and asked for nothing in return but a place by the fire. There are many
variations of the tale, but all culminate in the heroic death of Berenfaer
against the backdrop of the Karokhi Wars. The epilogue recounts his closest
comrades being asked, by passers-by or by family or by torturers "Where is
Berenfaer?", only to reply "I _am_ Berenfaer".  

As with all things, the truth must lie somewhere in the middle.  


[![](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-CY0dKD-
Cd5o/WrkzsCBZsXI/AAAAAAAABJE/QYGmAtc9W9o9w2evPj6LooTw-
GVAmCUrwCLcBGAs/s640/Banner1.jpg)](https://4.bp.blogspot.com/-CY0dKD-
Cd5o/WrkzsCBZsXI/AAAAAAAABJE/QYGmAtc9W9o9w2evPj6LooTw-
GVAmCUrwCLcBGAs/s1600/Banner1.jpg)

