---
date: 2017-10-06
author: odysseas
---
# Angaeradh : Before the Winter Came

Angærað was born around 3187 the daughter of the human Zhansur, a prominent
crime lord of Xianshi, and the elven sorceress Erhylassë, a direct descendant
of the high elves of Eltirion. She was raised by her father to attain the
cunning and charisma needed to become a mob boss, and by her mother to be a
watcher of the skies like her elven ancestors, to lament their fall from rule
and subsequent decimation, and to loathe the ruling dwarven castes for
bringing all this to pass.  

She was still a teenager when her oracular powers developed. There was ever
something eerie in the air around her, things moving on their own and faint
ghostly whispers. She could command divine powers stemming from the mysteries
of time, much like the elven seers of old. Through careful rumour-mongering,
her father utilised her gift to build for her the image of a "chosen one", as
she ruthlessly clawed her way to the top of the underworld hierarchy. Rumours
notwithstanding however, she could foretell things yet to pass like any proper
oracle.  
Most of the time her prophecies were portents no one was eager to hear, as
most of the time they spoke of loss. Few ever wanted to believe her until it
was too late; for she rarely erred.  
Thanks to this, she came to be known as "Qashandahr", a doomsayer, a haruspex
of woe. However, more to her liking, she was also dubbed "the Prophetess in
the Slums", possibly to present her as a champion of the downtrodden lower
castes and as the counter to the dwarven high oracle, by tradition called "the
Prophetess under the Mountain".  

At the age of 31, Angærað married Auraelis, an elf spellsword of the last
remaining elven enclaves in Mitheryn forest, and begat a daughter whom she
named Lithôniel. When Lithôniel grew to be 16, Angærað had a vision, a dream
of elves returning to a reborn Selanaar and reclaiming Eltirion; a possible
future the strands of which she could see passing through her daughter. She
was overjoyed, for Lithôniel might well grow to be the harbinger of the
triumphant return of her people to their rightful place as the watchers over
the land of Athalaar; unfortunately, the Prophetess under the Mountain had the
exact same vision.  

One night as Angærað lay sleeping in her late father's old office in Xianshi,
she woke to a terrible nightmare: another one of her known visions of terrible
things, only this time the people to be struck by fate were her own kin. She
raced to the enclave in Mitheryn where her mother, husband, and daughter
lived, only to find them missing along with everyone else there. All her
powerful divinations could not locate the souls of her family anywhere, not in
any world or plane; they had been wiped off existence. Someone had done
everything needed to make sure that stability was safeguarded, that the elves
remained in their place before any foretold reinstitution could occur, that
Eltirion remained sealed; someone with the dwarven interests at heart.  

Overcome by grief, she vanished, leaving behind a vacuum of power within the
mafia that sparked a bloody gang war. A few years later, she returned stronger
and more vicious than ever, ended the conflict within weeks, and ruled with an
iron fist as the Queen of the Selanahri Underworld.  
She foresaw terrible forces building up in the sealed tower of Eltirion. She
foresaw that the secrets the ruling classes kept would bring ruin upon the
continent and the world. She foresaw only she could prevent this.  

Determined to deliver bloody vengeance upon the dwarves for the injustice done
against her, and to rise up as the rightful ruler and protector of the people
of Selanahr, she undermined their authority at every opportunity,
consolidating her fiscal empire in the meantime, and gauging the ever-growing
pressure of doom amassing high up in Eltirion. Revenge would come. In time.  

Thus, in time, when the call for the Winter's War came out, she intercepted
the dwarven representatives heading to Kultaria, offed them, and appeared in
their stead as the Champion of Selanahr. The dwarven rulers soon learned what
had transpired as tales of her exploits in the south against the Hordes of
Fallfaunt reached the Athalahri shores, yet did not take action against her or
debunk her ill-gotten Selanahri representative status so as not to show
weakness.  

The rest is history.  


[![](https://3.bp.blogspot.com/-wub9nx7CpII/WddpJsL_QfI/AAAAAAAABF4/bux9n5BKMbUR1rxlLW5UEzNjejak89SvwCK4BGAYYCw/s640/Angaeradh%2BBlog.jpg)](http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-wub9nx7CpII/WddpJsL_QfI/AAAAAAAABF4/bux9n5BKMbUR1rxlLW5UEzNjejak89SvwCK4BGAYYCw/s1600/Angaeradh%2BBlog.jpg)



