---
date: 2017-08-21
author: sfakias
---
# Regarding the unfortunate events of 23/12/4816

We started marching from the village of Frolicat. T'was a small village, this
one, so we stayed there for two days just to wait for the farmer conscripts
from the north and stock up with supplies. Our army was fifteen battalions,
forty thousand strong, two mercenary battalions from Gheren Steeds and the
conscripts were twenty more. Eleven infantry battalions and four cavalry. The
excitement was true at first, but soon it faded away, as we reached the
mountains.



The march was slow, the farmers were cumbersome and inexpierienced. We covered
twenty miles a day if we were lucky, and a week later we were on the
inhospitable waste in Paraselt's foothills. Î‘ grim land, with bushes filled
with thorns, spare trees, and mosquitos. After the first week, morale was low,
although the army was well supplied.



We had established a big communication network all over the place. Our scouts
covered a huge distance, and they even fought several skirmishes with the
enemy. It was small groups of goblins. At first they seemed to be random
hunting parties, as most believed, but they soon proved to be scouts of a much
bigger force. We weren't aware of such an army, and when they appeared it was
already late.



Of course we took our precautions. We dig trenches, we set guards all over the
place, and we lit torches everywhere. Well, it was all for nothing. The scouts
were blind, the camps position was obvious, and the enemy unpredicted.
Dargonast's destruction was a bait, and the whole campaign was completely
predicted and manipulated by the enemy.



They attacked in the afternoon, with the sun on their backs. A huge force,
riding wargs, and they had those damned Black Vultures. Thew flew in pairs,
and they carried huge logs, filled with metal spikes and razor sharp chains.
When they left them from the air, they made a terrible moaning sound, and  the
men were screaming in terror. When the logs landed on our encampment, a few
moments later, it was pure chaos and destruction. My battalion on the rear had
a better view, and I ordered the archers to shoot the vultures. It was
meaningless: These bastard birds took a lot of arrows each to fall, and the
archers were blinded most of the time by the sun. I estimated there were at
least four hundred of these birds, and every pair  threw at least two or three
logs.



Immediately afterwards came the cavalry swipe. The wargs were covered in black
chain shirt barding, while most of the goblins were archer skirmishers. Our
horses were terrified, and soon arrows started landing everywhere. Panic
spread quickly. These farmers proved to be completely inexpierienced, dropping
weapons and running. The imtarian tactical forces had to choose between a
loose formation to dodge the logs and a crowded formation with pikes for the
infantry, but could not do both, so they were vulnerable one way or another,
and the enemy was swift to siege these mistakes.



Generals died randomly from logs. Every sense of control was lost, and soon
our army was divided into several small groups, with the warg riders and the
goblins running in between. We held our ground and at this time we could even
kill some of their cavalry, since the vultures required some time to resupply
with the next log barrage. When they came, it was obvious that the wargs after
the first attack they were not able to penetrate the defences, and our army
was well armored to die that easily from bites or shortbows.



And then the trolls appeared. Huge feral beasts, fifteen feet each. These were
a completely different story. They were armored from head to toe with black
plates of armor. This armor was held in place with spikes lodged in their
body, and that pain drove them in an unstoppable rampage. Our weapons couldn't
hurt them, and they swiped our armies, killing a dozen troops with each blow
and stomp. It was a massacre.



The First, Fifth and Twentieth Battalions are completely annihilated right
now; The Ninth, Fifteenth and Seventeenth suffered heavy losses, and many of
the Sergeants are gone. The Second Cavalry Battalion was sacrificed to give
time for retreat, while the Gheren Steeds fled to the South. We traveled for
two days, with the enemy constantly harassing. The estimated loss of men is
over nine thousand, and seven more are injured. I expect the Imtarian Army to
provide help and councel in these difficult moments on how to deal with the
Defeated Army, which doesn't seem Defeated to me.



Sergeant Moralia Tinderas  
Fourth Company

Eighth Imtarian Battalion

