---
date: 2018-06-27
author: rospy
---
# Stories: Ireno's Bell

Once there was such a city called Mi-Solla and it was a city filled with
joyful music. At first it was a small temple dedicated to a god of musical
instruments and only craftspeople and musicians lived there. One day many days
ago, a certain flute-maker carved a flute that rang the stars upon the sky and
changed the temple’s destiny. A god grew curious as they never remembered
having blessed the flute-maker to craft such a work. Thinking this to be a
sign of true genius, they sent a legendary Choral Angel to reside in their
temple. The angel called himself Chun’m and only then did the musicians of the
Mi-Solla know what kind of music they should make. People flocked to see this
angel and study under him.  Mi-Solla was then a euphonious place.



For many decades the  Mi-Solla grew and did not stop to grow. At first people
did not believe the story of the city – a place where musicianship granted
citizenship and citizenship granted well-being. Not only that, people who did
not show musicianship would be taught it. This was all because the angel of
that place sincerely enjoyed good music and wanted to see more of it. At first
people doubted, saying “Chun’m is actually an evil devil and has evil plans”
or “Chun’m is using music as a bribe to a god above him” or “Chun’m eats the
souls of musicians”. Later on these sayings disappeared, because Chun’m was
neither an evil god, a sly god, nor a hungry god. It was simply he truly
enjoyed his duty to the world (and I think it is very sad that people refused
to believe it, because the attitude says a lot about Na'erk nowadays).




The Angel of Mi-Solla welcomed everyone who would come to him to seek
tutelage. He listened to them and knew whether they should pluck strings,
strike bells, or melt bronze. Chun’m advised everyone how to pursue his favor.
People would listen back and live to meet the angel’s expectations. And once
in a while Chun’m would tell a great musician to leave the city, not because
he was displeased but because he was very pleased – he wanted them to spread
good music across Creation. Of course to each of them Chun’m gave a staff-
flute which sang pretty melodies when it smacked unruly brigands in the head.



But one day something terrible happened to the city and Chun’m went to do
something about it. The city was saved, but its angel fell into wakeless
sleep. For the first time since his arrival, the people of the Mi-Solla did
not want to make music. Instead they gathered at the temple and asked,
angrily, how to awaken him. His priests answered fearfully “we do not know; we
hear neither his dreams nor nightmares.” Mi-Solla had grown complacent under a
benevolent angel’s guidance over the years and, without his direction, the
entire city was confused. To arouse Chun’m, the people tried to orchestrate
their music and play reverently for three days and two nights. When that
didn’t work, they instead tried to raise a commotion and make the biggest
noise that Na'erk has ever heard . The people of the Mi-Solla did everything
they knew to help the angel who helped them. Nothing worked.




The city was in mourning after the last attempt. That day a wizard was walking
by. She was surprised to hear that the joyful Mi-Solla was not joyful at all.
The mage asked the people and Chun’m’s priests what had happened. Once she
found out the sad fate that had struck the city, she earned the people’s favor
with small Irenocles and asked to attend sleeping Chun’m herself. Now, by the
angel’s bedside, the wizard heard something that musicians of the city could
not. She told them “I know how to awaken your angel but it requires someone
untainted by the world to sing to him; he is a angel of musical instruments
and a wicked song had gotten to him. He needs a pure song to purge that
wickedness from his essence.”




The advice was true and the sorcerer wished to help the people of Mi-Solla,
but she had to leave as she had business to attend to. Chun’m’s priests came
together and discussed how to follow the plan that this kind sorcerer shared
with them. You see, they were used to strings and bells and flutes and drums,
but the music of the voice was unfamiliar. They sought out singers among the
citizens. Nobody could awaken Chun’m. They had experienced life too much. Too
much greed. Too much lust.




Once again, the people of the city were at a loss. But in another angry
meeting, a bell-maker remarked in passing “the child of Ireno the Thug has
never felt the world and his voice must be purer than anything – if he could
speak.” You see, though I never mentioned him yet, one among the citizens who
were no good at music was Ireno the Thug, who was called the Thug because of
his thuggish demeanor in youth. Let me recount his story first.




Ireno never cared for much and did whatever he wanted during his youthful
years. He had beaten up many to get what he wanted and, in turn, he was beaten
up by many to lose what he kept. His life was garbage. Ireno did not always
live in Mi-Solla – he moved there much later in life – and once he was living
in Greenmils. A few decades ago, though Ireno did not remember the occasion, a
starry-eyed stranger came to him and told him to do a weird favor for her – to
deliver a locked casket to a certain recipient. The starry-eyed stranger chose
Ireno specifically because his life was garbage and in need of disposal. But
she was a fool to think a garbage-living Ireno was a fool. Ireno realized how
dangerous this favor was and gave up on it, forgot to do it.




The Witch was very mad about it, because Ireno’s not being a fool resulted in
many deaths and, not only that, her loss of allies. So one night the Witch
plucked out Ireno’s star and cursed it, saying “nothing you love will truly
last; anything that lasts will last only to give you pain.” Then she put it
back to the night sky before anyone noticed. The Witch forgot about this curse
for a time (she had a habit of cursing many people who got in her way.)




Over time Ireno’s star never helped Ireno. His life grew worse, and then even
worse over time. He lost everything. He almost reached a point where he could
not care. Then someone cared for him somehow. He was afraid to love her,
because he had grown to suspect that nothing he loves would truly last. It
would kill his soul to see her wither and die. But how powerful is the heart!
Ireno made a compromise; he would only love her half as much as he would want
to.




The couple had many children but all of them died within a week after birth.
Ireno and his wife sought many angels and even demons to help them, but always
the answer was “there is nothing even I can do.” But they did not give up. One
day Ireno’s wife had heard of this great angel called Chun’m and they decided
to plea to him, too. She knew she did not have much time left and she had
grown desperate to see a child between them live to stay with Ireno.




Chun’m, too, knew he could not help the couple very much. But so wide and
broad was his heart that he blessed them nonetheless. He decreed that their
next child will live long and bring beautiful music to the world. Perhaps
because of this, Ireno’s next child lived to be eight days old. At this
moment, the spiteful Witch noticed something was wrong and looked at Ireno’s
star, saying “well, you get to keep one thing and one thing only, but don’t
you think I will allow you happiness.”




So Ireno’s wife died.




Ireno the Thug wept. He wept again when he found out Nangi could neither see,
hear, nor speak. Ireno was happy to be with Nangi but Ireno was never there
for Nangi. Accepting that he was thankful even for this state of affairs,
Ireno worked hard to keep Nangi happy – he particularly loved honey-dipped
cookies. Ireno was thankful for Chun’m, too, because in his mind it was Chun’m
who granted him this child.




And again then was when someone said Nangi could sing Chun’m awake. But how?
Nangi could not speak. Hearing his beloved child’s name commonly spoken in the
city, Ireno wanted to find out how they would make Nangi sing. Well, the bell-
makers who were enlightened in musical arts decided to give Ireno the Thug’s
child a voice. At another temple meeting, Ireno was told this – and that it
would happen as Nangi would fuel the melting of bronze for the bell that will
awaken Chun’m.




Enraged, Ireno picked up an iron flute and struck dead one priest and showed
how he got his appellation to others. He escaped the city with his child. He
was angry and fearful that the people would want Nangi dead. But he never
cursed Chun’m himself. Though Ireno put all his strength to his legs and ran,
he was one and there were many people in the Mi-Solla, some who were faster
than Ireno.




As punishment, Ireno was bound and forced to watch the bell be forged. The
bruised and bone-broken priests consecrated the bronze and the fire within the
furnace. The city prayed to Chun’m. The smiths threw Nangi into the fires; he
died without even letting a scream out. But Ireno could hear his child cry and
he was compelled to hug him, to embrace him so he would not be afraid. He
summoned such strength that the rope binding him tore and exploded. Before
anyone could grasp him, Ireno too leapt into the fires.




But he did say one thing before: “My life is at end in the hands of cowards.
But whoever tolls this bell to break it will be blessed with the strength of
the typhoon, the wealth of the an Empire, and the wisdom of Heaven.”




And then the bell was cast. It was a great temple bell, as tall as a house and
as wide as an elephant. At the dawn of an auspicious day, the still-bruised
and still-bone-broken priests tolled the bell together, as the ringer was too
big for a person. Chun’m rose from his sleep.




Then the angel heard the sound, which was clear and sonorous to mortal ears,
but cruel and ragged to divine ears. Chun’m screamed invectives at his blessed
priests and instrumentalists. He spat out words of anger and spite at the
whole city for allowing the bell to be cast. Then he returned to whence he
came without even looking back.




The city was silent for days.




One night, then, Ireno’s Bell tolled again. The sound filled the entire city.
The priests ran toward the bell-gazebo and saw that someone was throwing all
his weight to toll the bell, to the point that he died. Luckily the bell was
too finely crafted to break. They carried the carcass away to give it burial.
Then the bell tolled again. And again. And again.




From that night to months later, Ireno’s Bell never stopped to toll. All the
musicians had forgotten their virtues and fought each other to throw the
ringer, sometimes to death. Clearly after this many strikes, it should be the
next strike that breaks the bell. Then the strength and the wealth and the
wisdom would be theirs. The priests (who had not thrown themselves at the
bell) gave up and departed Mi-Solla. Corpses began to pile up at the gazebo.




In the end, the city broke before Ireno’s Bell did. But Ireno’s curse has
become a legend and even to this day the bell’s beautiful sound fills the
countryside of Oventhart.

