---
title: "The witch Sevena and the three Companions"
date: 2016-09-02
author: rospy
---

There came a time when the dust of the road grew too thick for Sevena, and her
great stave grew heavy, and the days grew dead and cold. She lifted her brow
to the horizon, and spying the faint light of shelter, set her shoulder to the
wind and drove on. It was not long before she came upon a cramped and hardy
town, set into the earth as though frozen there. The roads were well used, and
smoke and steam coiled from hot chimneys, but although the light had not yet
died, there was not a soul about, only a few spare and desperate looking dogs.
This troubled Sevena, being a guardian witch, but she pressed on, for travel
by then had worn her so thin that she feared to trust the strength of her arm.

It wasn’t long before Sevena came upon a narrow and weather-stained hall, and
there a door with iron nails in it. As she entered, something caught her eye.
Over the threshold was an old sprig of holly and and a writ of forbiddance
against the things that preyed on men, the paper fresh and crisp. Inside the
hall a long hearth tried fitfully to push back against the chill that seeped
in through the cracked walls. There gathered on the straw were some dozen
locals, their faces haggard and creased, and sitting some ways off were three
others, who stood out by their color – for the rest of the place was dull and
smothered with gloom. The first was a man with a crimson cloak, a  knight with
a knotted beard and bulging eyeballs. The second was a priest in a stained
white vestment, chewing on sweetroot and spitting the juice into the straw.
The third was a golden-haired woman with milky skin and burnished armor. She
had on her a great number of weapons, all polished to a sheen, and many
emblems were fastened to her breastplate, which was fashioned in the likeness
of a snarling beast.

Sevena thought it a strange scene, but stranger still was the cold and hollow
silence in that place, broken only by the shuffling of feet, the light tap of
utensils, and the occasional sound of the priest spitting into the straw. “Ho
friends,” said Sevena, feeling as if she was breaking glass with her very
words, “May I sit by this hearth? The nights grow long and the path is hard
and stony.” There was no response, so Sevena took a second step into the room,
and saw at once the grey and downturned faces, the hollow and reddened eyes,
and the empty expressions of those seated there. Sevena saw that the hall,
narrow that it was, was built for far more to supper there, and she was
suddenly aware of the great emptiness in that room.

“Death has made her abode here,” said Sevena.

“So she has,” said the red-cloaked  knight, and bade Sevena come share bread.

Sevenasat down amongst the three strangers. The bread had been broken some
time ago, and was stiff and dense. Sevena chewed it and tried to warm herself,
but her cloak was thin, and the the hearth barely touched the room with its
heat. “Where is the captain ?” asked Sevena. “Dead,” said the priest with the
stained robes, and spat into the straw, “And you won’t get much out of anyone
here about it. Not a soul in this town dares breathe a word, or lets their
boots protrude an inch outside more than they have to. All industry and life
in this town fled long ago. It’s as dead as the poor captain.”

“How so?” said Sevena.

“They are paralyzed with fear. There’s a demon about,” said the priest,
through his mouthful of root. “It goes about pick-a-pack and kills what it
pleases, be it man, woman, or child. So I hear it, at first it began taking a
little – mutilating livestock and the like. Then before long it got a taste
for man flesh. It hasn’t killed when the sun is high yet, so folks have
figured that’s the only way to stay safe.” The priest picked at a scar on his
nose and continued. “Trouble is, it seems lately it hasn’t been following the
rules. It’s lifting latches and throwing catches and crawling in through
windows and spilling the guts of folks in their sleep. So they all figure the
quieter they are, the less likely they are to lose their innards.”

“Makes for poor hospitality,” wheezed the  knight, and took a long drink from
an iron flask at his hip. The golden-haired maiden simply looked on, her
expression bitter. Sevena found the pale woman’s silence troubling. Her
massive hands searched for the grip of her great stave, for she was familiar
with demons, and had spent a great deal of her days on the road driving them
out of the places she passed through. Here, near the edges of the world, they
clustered on the hamlets spotted across the bleak landscape and fattened
themselves like ticks. “Well, hasn’t anyone thought of killing it?” said
Sevena.

“Didn’t you see the tree on the way in?” said the  knight. Sevena shook her
head, as she had no idea what he was talking about. The three other travelers
passed a look between them.

“Well come have a look,” said the priest. He heaved to his feet and spat his
sweet root out, and grabbed his preaching rod and an old iron lantern, which
he lit with a foul-smelling oil. Sevena followed him as he limped out the
door. Strangely, he paused on the threshold, foot planted as though waiting
for something. Sevena was about to ask why, but caught the sheen of sweat on
the man’s ruddy neck, and the slight shake in his hand, and realized the
priest was afraid. She held her tongue as the  knight, and then the golden-
haired woman, gathered up their armament, then rose and followed them into the
biting dusk. The light had almost wicked away to nothing. The streets they
passed through were hollow, and even the dogs had disappeared. Their footsteps
echoed off the walls of that barren place, and through the freezing air Sevena
could sense the invisible and terrible grip of fear.

