---
title: Day of Wild Magic
date: 2024-02-06
author: sfakias
tags:
  - countries/Naryal
  - factions/Edhellin

---
> [!attributes]
> 
> > [!quote]
> >
> > | | |
> > | --- | --- |
> > | Place | [[Edhelwood]] |
> > | Time | -1550 |
> > | Combatants | [[King Erlamin]], [[Thelar]], [[Aela]], [[Keldan]], [[Sarfir]], [[Virdithas]] against [[Sylris]] and [[Nentha]] |

The day of Wild Magic started after many decades of careful preparation from the powerful exiled [[Edhellin]] wizard [[Sylris]] and the dragon [[Nentha]]. When he was ready, he called for a meeting in [[Edhelwood]].

As the Elf king saw Nentha, immediately taunted him and said _"Are you so afraid of me that you create all this nonsense, are you postponing your impending death? Do you still think you rule the most powerful country in Naerk? Whatever happens here today, know that the Edhellin will rule over the dragons if you continue to cause trouble in my rule. From this encounter, I have absolutely nothing to lose. I couldn't say the same for you, of course."_

Nentha did not respond in the same style to the Elf king's challenges. He spoke to him lovingly and said, _"No one here wants to dethrone you. All we want is for you to come to your senses. You are leading your people into impending war with your actions. Dragons are no threat to your kingdom. The only threat to it is you and the other five around you."_

[[Virdithas]] jumped in and replied _"You dragons fear our evolution and try to enslave us with insidious methods. I don't even understand why we're sitting and talking to a dragon and his ruffian."_ He got up from the table and casted a powerful electricity spell aimed at Sylris.

Nentha put his wing up as a shield and moved away from the table with Sylris. He told him that he would be able to keep the elves busy for a few minutes until Sylris could finish casting a powerful sealing spell with the help of the [[Vaelasil|orb]].

Sylris then stopped time with a powerful spell to cast the infamous spell "Rift in the Veil", that during his research he had gained expertise with it. Nentha fought to delay the elves for a few minutes. When time continued to "flow" again, the elves noticed that Sylris has disappeared and they realized that the dragon is simply buying time and Sylris is somewhere close. Immediately the Elf king ordered the five wizards to find Sylris and mentioned that he will arrange the dragon. Nentha without wasting any time breathed out a hot wave of fire which was a very soft shade of blue, as Nentha's fires were capable of burning even creatures that lived in volcanic regions. Erlamin's response was immediate. Before the fire could reach him and the five wizards, a translucent barrier of magical energy appeared in front of them. Virdithas seeing the opening created by the Elf king called a massive wave of plasma that descended from the heavens and crashed into the dragon with such force that it was discernible within hundreds of miles.

Nentha let out a scream so loud that it caused massive oscillations in the trees of [[Edhelwood]]. [[Aela]] summoned hundreds of eyes to surround the forest to find Sylris. Sarfir created a strange illusion where the distribution of space had changed and the dimensions were reversed. Erlamin created an orb of frost and sent it furiously at the dragon, who used his left wing to deflect it, where it landed causing significant damage. A barrage of attacks were directed at the dragon and most of them found their mark. Nentha took his time to find the attackers and adapt to their spells, while his magic-resistant scales protected him. By this time the five wizards had left the place and were trying to find Sylris, when they noticed that their spells were not enough to put the dragon out of battle quickly.

The battle of the Elf king with Nentha was carried over to the air. The Elf king locked the dragon in a huge prismatic orb about a mile in diameter, but the dragon with a mighty flutter broke it into infinite silver shards and at the same time breathing a huge cloud of smoke which enveloped half of Edhelwood. This spell was part of the dragon and Sylris' strategy. They figured it would buy enough time. And indeed, Aela's eyes were already useless. But the smoke was not enough for the Elf king and he found time to transform into a huge red dragon and bite Nentha's neck. Nentha began to bleed, but managed to push the Elf king away with his claws and wings. Over the next minutes a battle ensued between the two dragons, turning the most of the western side of Edhelwood to ashes and making the place look more like a desert than a temperate forest. The battle was leaning towards the dragon, but without being able to gain clear control of the situation. When he found time he attacked the other wizards to get them to engage with him, but the bait did not find a target.

On the other side the wizards managed to counter Nentha's smoke, with a slow spell cast by [[Thelar]] that created a black typhoon hundreds of yards tall and swept magic mist and trees away with it. When the landscape cleared, the mages had not been able to find Sylris. The only one who continued to search for Sylris was Aela. The remaining four mages converged on the Elf king to help him defeat the dragon.

As the Elf king noticed them, he asked them if they recovered the orb. When he received a negative answer, he shouted at them with all his might. _"You fools, what are you doing? search underground, in the sky, everywhere!"_ Then, they noticed in the sky a huge ball of black energy, something they had never seen before, and the Elf king detected Sylris due to the increased senses provided by the dragon form.

Immediately Erlamin ordered the wizards to stop Sylris, but it was too late as their spells were automatically pulled from the black ball of energy and made it even bigger, reaching two hundred feet radius. Sylris to their awe flew by harnessing gravitational waves from other dimensions. He addressed Erlamin shouting loudly: _"Your era comes to an end, old friend."_

Erlamin felt terrified as he was unsure what the possible functions from the black magic orb hovering above them were. The four wizards tried to reach Sylris, but [[Nentha]] like lightning was in front of them and with a powerful flutter, he pulled them away from Sylris saying _"Now you stay there and observe. Any interference is fruitless."_

Sylris directed the black orb into the heavens until it collided with the invisibility cloak, resulting in a chaotic explosion, which causes earthquakes and hurricanes throughout [[Naerk]] with strength that decreased linearly with distance from the epicenter of the explosion. The sky darkened and as time passed the color lightened until it took on a shade of a blue lighter than the sky. A vortex had formed at the point of the explosion, with raw energy swirling in irregular shapes. The transparent cloak that protected Naerk from Veth's radiation now showed a crack. Spirits began to invade the world of Naerk which was not foreseen by the dragon. But this could not affect their plans. Sylris creates a crystal ball, where it acted like a very small planet with a huge gravitational pull. This orb drew into it all the spirits, the Elf king, the five wizards, the dragon and Sylris. This spell was much more powerful than its original version. Sylris assumed that the rift in the mantle brought with it the [[Day of Wild Magic]].

When he was sure all the targets were inside the sphere he guided it into the slot. They suddenly found themselves in a colorless, odorless, weightless dimension, surrounded by incredible amounts of energy that tortured their bodies through constant impacts. The sphere moved forward for a few minutes, until they met two realms. Nentha explained to them that they are in the [[Ethereal Plane]] and that these two realms are different planes as they border the ethereal plane. These kingdoms belonged to [[Malahir]] and [[Voolthow]]. While the sphere was moving in the ethereal plane the Edhellin mages couldn't react due to the gravitational waves. Their immortal bodies allowed them to survive, but even actions like speaking were incredibly painful.

The time had come for the plan to reach its final stage. Sylris created a demiplane, which he named Eruvim. Sylris then stoped time, weakened the gravitational pull, pulled Nentha out with force magic, and allowed time to flow smoothly again. The sphere is imprisoned within the demiplane. The demiplane's gravitational pull is tens of times that of Naerk, and time on it has absolutely no meaning - practically, a timeless existence with no exits or entrances.

Sylris and Nentha had emerged victorious from this altercation. They returned to Naerk and had one last obstacle to face until their total victory. Initially, they had to close the rift in the transparent mantle to put an end to the travel between the two planes, mainly for the spirits, but at the same time they had to seal the spirits that were rapidly entering the opposite bank of the rift. Sylris quickly found the solution to this problem. He would cast the spell he had used to save Edhelwood from the fire. Of course, his task had become more difficult, as he had to not simply turn back time, but some events to remain as true. Sylris felt confident in his abilities as he had the power of the orb and the open rift on his side. Sylris started immediately casting the spell, a cast that lasted many hours and drew attention to himself by several powerful entities.

This day had dramatically changed the world of Naerk and the eyes of the gods were on Sylris. Voolthow observed the council and the battle and he couldn't wait to find out how Sylris would handle this crisis and learn the secrets of his time-space magic. Almost a day had passed since the battle began, without any unforeseen events. Voolthow carefully observed the ceremony of the Edhellin mage, but was driven mad because he could not understand how it affected the radiation and changed their nature. Around Sylris glowed beams of energy with dozens of shades of different colors. The sounds of the ritual along with the gentle movements of Sylris produced an lullaby effect with calmness in the atmosphere. This scene irritated Voolthow even more, until the moment came for him to act. He descended in the form of a tall and husky man who wielded an ax over seven feet. He didn't look lordly but he was ready to start a fight.

Sylris looked up to see a gigantic figure emerge from the shadows, wearing a goat skull mask with two holes that draw in light from all the surrounding space, and Sylris was lost in shadows pulling at him. He had already stopped the ritual and his hands began to shake. This was how he had imagined it would feel if he touched the black ball of energy with his hand when he cast the rift in the Veil spell.

Nentha, sensing Sylris's state of mental imbalance, chose to speak first. _"To what do we owe this honor, lord of the Shadows?"_
_"Your young elf friend has pulled it off. He wields magic that even we gods dare not approach. It's time to face the consequences of your actions. This game ends now!"_ Voolthow picked up Sylris with one hand, snatched the orb from him and flung him away.
Seeing Voolthow's action Nentha asks him with irritation _"Since when do the gods have the right to assert their power on the [[Material Plane]]?"_
_"Since your partner stole my personal gift to the Elf King."_
Sylris heared the words of the god of Shadow and found the mental reserves to stand up to him. _"YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ELRAMIN'S DISASTER. YOU ARE THE ONE WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MY ACTIONS. So since you want so much to impose order, take this shattered orb with you so we never see it again!"_

Just as Voolthow was about to give his angry reply to the Edhellin mage, [[Yerastu]] appeared before him. An anthropomorphic creature in white and blue robes, twenty foot tall, with a pair of massive wings emerging from its back, created from raw energy. Wonder was painted in Sylris's eyes as, to him, the most absurd thing about Yerastu's invasion was not his descent into the material plane, nor the massive beams of light that surrounded him, but the lack of a face beneath his imposing hood. Accompanying his terrifying presence was a massive execution sword that seemed made not for the needs of a battle but for the dismemberment of souls crossing the Ethereal Plane.

All the momentum Voolthow had gained was suddenly lost. Yerastu took the floor and addressed the Shadow god in a stern tone. _"Who gave you the right to intervene? You have seconds until you finish your dialogue with these mortals and return to your plane."_
Voolthow made a sudden move absorbing a large amount of Vaelasil's magical energy and threw the orb to Sylris' side: _“This orb will remain in the possession of mortals as its power flourishes, corrupting its master's soul. The orb belongs to you. Manage it as you will"_ as he fled for the [[Shadow Plane|Shadow Realm]] with a loud chuckle.

Yerastu informed the dragon and Sylris that he would close the rift himself and that in their next meeting he would not be so kind, in a serious yet stern tone. Before heading off to seal the rift he replied to himself with critical speech: _"Malahir was wrong, elves were not to be given immortality and your actions showed it. Your period of grace is over!"_
In less than a moment the rift had been sealed and Yerastu had disappeared from their sight. Sylris could see the appearance of a new translucent veil beneath the existing one. The day of Wild Magic had ended.