---
title: Decade War of Arbader and South Darrok
date: 2024-12-06
author: sfakias
tags:
  - countries/South Darrok
  - countries/Arbader

---
> [!attributes]
> 
> > [!quote]
> >
> > | | |
> > | --- | --- |
> > | Place | [[South Darrok]] |
> > | Time | 4589-4599 |
> > | Combatants | tens of thousands of warriors from both sides |
> > | Casualties| thousands of warriors from both sides |
> > | Outcome | Negligible Arbader territorial gains |

A few years after the [[Darrok]] Civil War and subsequent split, the southern part still faced numerous challenges. Many farmers saw their crops burned and plundered while trade had practically stopped. Imtaria supported the governor [[Reynald]] who had settled in [[Llykavann]] and gradually began introducing a series of laws for the southern Darrok so that the country could recover. Their final form was presented in the year 4586.

The laws included strengthening the country's trade and cavalry. Taxation rose in various ways, but many goods were made more accessible with the establishment of permanent caravans across the length and breadth of Darrok's mainland. The main road connected [[Llykavann]] with [[Irmast]], [[Goldencape]] and [[Ekteron]], with a second connecting [[Lamerpad]] with [[Sapurr]], again via Irmast. The one hundred and twenty lords of the country received special tax breaks for breeding horses and for the manufacture and sale of weapons and armor. But [[Reynald]] was also called upon to solve other problems that had arisen.

Llykavann had become the new capital of South Darrok for two main reasons: The first was that it was the closest city to [[Imtaria]] and its merchant ships and caravans could reach it more easily. The second was that it was also the safest area during the civil strife, a few years before during the secession from the north. However, it was still a city that had grown suddenly, it did not have a specific shape and its streets remained narrow and unpaved. At the same time, the city had low wooden walls and only the governor's tower was a complete structure.

This was the state of South Darrok when suddenly, one morning, the people of Llykavann saw the banners of Arbader's army marching to the south. In fact, this invasion had been in preparation for a long time. In the decline of [[Darrok]] after the civil war, the rising power of [[Arbader]] and [[Hasnev]] found an excuse to expand. But that was not the only reason: In the [[Queenswood]], the forest east of Llykavann, there was a grove of trees that were sacred to the city: The first queen of Darrok had walked there and carved trees with silver and precious stones. The value of these trees was incalculable, obviously in the case of [[Hasnev]] not for sentimental but for financial reasons.

What few knew, apart from [[King Laorwick Ι]], who had sent spies of the [[Crimson Steel]] to Llykavann. They informed him at regular intervals, and even told him that in this grove was kept a magical helmet, the [[Kalvathron]], which had been made in Ekteron with metal from the river [[Styx]] and whoever wore it could read thoughts and even predict the future. It is said that it was made by the wizards of [[Wyrsaliir]] in ancient times and had been washed up by the river [[Serpent's Tail|Serpent's Head]] in [[Sapurr]].

Two battalions of mounted knights, one from [[Vayrel]] and one from [[St. Condall]] rushed to this grove along with a company of Bugbear archers for support. Within a few minutes, the army fell upon a handful of priests and pilgrims and killed them all, many of them in a very macabre way. A looting immediately began, including many religious and national relics, silver and stones, as well as the [[Kalvathron]]. The units retreated in order and the helmet was handed over to King Laorwick.

Within half an hour a second wave of troops appeared outside Llykavann. It was a battalion of cavalry from [[Hashnev]], two battalions of archers, three infantry, and three companies of fully armed cyclops carrying ladders and battering rams for the entire detachment. The city's defenses proved to be very thin, with one active and one reserve battalion of guards practically caught asleep. Within minutes the hastily closed gate had been breached, and [[Arbader]]'s army entered the walls. A futile battle with the guards ensued, that only gave some citizens time to escape. The city fell, and within two hours the last alley of the city was filled with Arbader's army, looting, slaughtering, and taking slaves. Almost all the guards were massacred.

The last refuge in the city was the governor's tower. [[Reynald]] was trapped and besieged there, with his guard and servants numbering about four hundred. However, when the cyclops approached the tower, they found that it was made of [[Tarhelm]] stone by the craftsmen of [[Talhad]], in the years of the unified Darrok. They tried stones, hammers and battering rams but the tower did not seem to fall. The remaining inhabitants were chased even outside the walls, and into the harbor, with a few ships managing to flee north to [[Sapurr]] filled with refugees.

The war between the two countries had just begun, with the people of Darrok swearing revenge for the massacre, the theft of Kalvathron and the loss of their capital. The governor remained under siege but was able to communicate with his priests through the network of other cities, and on the same day the invasion was known to the farthest corners of the country.

Anger swept the people of South Darrok at the news of the atrocious invasion. The lords began to recruit warriors and peasants alike, and within two weeks three regular and two irregular battalions had been assembled at [[Irmast]], three regular and one irregular at Ekteron, two regular and one irregular at Sapurr, and one regular and one irregular at [[Goldencape]]. From the fugitives of Llykavann another irregular was formed, thirsting for revenge. In a letter, Governor [[Reynard]] summoned General [[Torris]] Lionhead, who served [[Nentha]], to return to the country and take command of the army.

Hastily returning from [[Sunshine]] with his dragon [[Stenthix]], Torris officially assumed command of the battalions based at [[Irmast]]. The nine organized battalions numbered a total of 23,000 experienced warriors, while the five irregular ones numbered another 18,000, many of whom were assigned as support personnel. Torris appointed his brother [[Mennis]] as his lieutenant general, as well as the elven wizard [[Ildish]] Tetharym, and the battalions were moved south to cover three defensive areas. Torris headed with four battalions twenty miles south of [[Irmast]] and built fortifications on the plains of Volprost, Mennis with three battalions in the city of Relmon, and Ildish with two battalions took over the forest of [[Al-Gharash]].

Days passed and became weeks, but [[Arbader]]'s army made no move. Some troops begun to plunder the villages north and east of Llykavann, many perished in Queenswood, while the siege of Reynard's tower continued. As they sacked Volprost, they encountered the third cavalry battalion led by Torris himself on Stenthix. The slaughter that followed was merely a foretaste of what was to come, as the heavily armed knights shattered the invaders' makeshift defenses. Many of the dead were dragged south and hanged as a warning to Laorwick.

Meanwhile, Ildish did not stand still. He began to attack south of [[Al-Gharash]], retreating back into the forest when he was counterattacked by [[Arbader]]'s bugbears. Reinforcements continued to arrive, but in the forest it was very difficult to find his soldiers, who could break their pursuers into many small groups and lead them to pre-arranged ambushes. Thus, Arbader was unable to expand to the northwest.

Soon, however, the situation changed when Laorwick put on the stolen [[Kalvathron]] helmet. He did not dare to put it on until his wizards were sure of what it did and how. Within a few days, however, its use had become clear and gradually he was able to wear it and utilise its power. At first, Laorwick began to interrogate prisoners and with a simple touch he learned everything they were hiding, even if they did not want to tell him. He was able to learn South Darrok's command, generals, and forces, and soon his forces began to evade the traps set by [[Torris]]. This was succesful after several months though, as the first prisoners from Llykavann were unaware of the new general's plans and had to find prisoners from subsequent battles.

The second battle happened about three months later. In a skirmish with [[Mennis]]' soldiers south of [[Relmon]], Arbader's forces under Major Toldar feigned retreat and then counterattacked, resulting in over four hundred dead Darrok soldiers and a hundred prisoners. These were sent directly to Laorwick, who managed to learn many of Mennis' plans and some of Torris's, as two captains were among the prisoners. Moreover, he learned about the composition of the enemy troops and found that there were quite a few disputes between some battalions of different races, mainly elves/gnomes and humans/dwarves.

The cunning king did not leave this unexploited. He sent disguised members of the [[Crimson Steel]] into Mennis' army and they began to sow the seeds of discord. The soldiers were told that some companies were being treated with special treatment or that some were cowards, and as a result his battalions began to become dysfunctional.

A few months later came the first test of the army's cohesion. Laorwick's main body attacked the western [[Volprost Plains|plain of Volprost]]. An entire battalion of Bugbear was the vanguard, having unleashed hundreds of wild wolves on Torris' army the night before. Without any sleep, Laorwick's knights faced their southern counterparts in a massive battle with fifteen thousand cavalry and infantry on each side. However, fatigue and doubt soon began to gnaw at Darrok's ranks, and when the first soldiers from the irregular battalions began to retreat, the knights soon found themselves surrounded. Only the immediate intervention of Torris on his dragon saved his warriors from complete slaughter. His losses exceeded three thousand, among them many of the knights' elite.

With several short battles to follow, [[Torris]] found himself retreating from Volprost with heavy losses. He asked for help from [[Mennis]] but only two companies rushed to help, as many battalions had returned freed "prisoners" and spies who had begun to breed discord in the army. The majority did not trust Torris and considered that he did not have the luxury of asking for help as they said that his tactics were wrong and that he should hold out alone.

Laorwick's plan was to stop the attacks for a while and for the [[Crimson Steel]] to take over and assassinate Torris from within as a result of the accumulated resentment towards his person. Indeed, several disgruntled men attempted to rebel against the "imported" general, as they called him. The majority of these were dwarves, some of whom had been brought as prisoners before Laorwick and had been brainwashed by his lies, and there were also a number of hidden Crimson Steel. The dwarven rebellion took place early the following year.

They attacked [[Torris]] one night and used a large crossbow that was next to his dragon [[Stenthix]] to kill him on the spot. Taken by surprise, Torris awoke and fought his assassins valiantly with only a few guards by his side. He laid down several dead, but he too eventually fell when a scythe-wielding assassin known as [[Wallot]] stabbed him in the back, the point of which pierced his armor. When the blade touched him, he turned pale and within an instant he was dead.

After the news of General Torris' death, anger and resentment swept through the people of South Darrok. A brave young halfling named [[Jade]] took it upon himself to lead a shipborne attack on Llykavann to break the siege of Reynald's tower. With a select group of sixty veterans, they arrived at the harbor in five schooners and fell upon the cyclops garrison that Laorwick had placed there. They attacked by surprise and managed to kill or scatter most of them, and in the confusion they entered the tower and resupplied the garrison of the governor [[Reynald]].

The cyclops attempted to organize a defense while the veterans unloaded food from the schooners, but Jade would not let them. Every time someone tried to give orders, he was surrounded by ten experienced warriors, while Jade delivered the finishing blow. This was repeated fourteen times, with Jade that day earning the nickname Giantkiller, as he killed the cyclops with his pickaxe one after another. Then, after the schooners were emptied, the servants and wounded who had remained in the tower were evacuated, and only two hundred remained there, the rest fleeing by sea. Jade remained in the tower to defend the governor.

After this humiliating defeat, Laorwick was forced to retreat slightly to reorganize his supplies. He still had no way to attack the tower, and he had personally been disgraced, along with the cyclops. But despite the psychological victory it had won, southern Darrok remained at a disadvantage and had lost a very effective general. Between the two lieutenants, neither seemed capable or ready to lead the entire army, until ten days later a general elected by the Ekteron council arrived.

This was Duchess [[Gwendoline]] Bardatt, a warrior who had served for a decade at the Monastery of the Four Winds. She had formed her own knightly order, the Knights of Sapurr, who had specially trained war bulls as mounts. She and her warriors reorganized the army and prepared plans for the next great battle. At the same time, he sentenced dwarves who had spread rumors or attacked their comrades to lay down their arms and to forced labor in the forges of Sapurr for ten to fifty years, depending on the severity of the offense. This cost almost two companies of the army and the dwarves considered the punishment to be very unfair and one-sided, but the animosities in the army did stop, despite complaints. Despite Arbader's attempts to sow discord and target Gwendoline, these had very limited results in the following period.

Thus entered the year 4593, when both countries were exhausted economically and militarily and needed a respite. Then a one-year truce was signed in Relmon. Apparently this treaty was accompanied by several skirmishes during its duration and by several redeployments in both opposing armies. However, these skirmishes were limited to the forests of Al-Gharash and did not become widespread. As for the redeployments, Arbader's army acquired considerably improved chain armor and the cyclops were equipped with shields, so that they were not vulnerable to arrows. Gwendoline had to suppress several nobles who called for a permanent peace treaty in exchange for Ilykavann, and she also changed some renegade captains.

The following year began with a fierce battle at Queenswood. Both sides had detected enemy movements, and lined up on the northern border of the forest. Two of Darrok's mounted battalions fell upon bugbear archers and broke their lines, while the infantry engaged in a close-quarters battle. Five of Darrok's battalions soon reached the forest, and fighting broke out in several places.

The focus of attention was a fort in the north of the forest, which had been abandoned and occupied by Darrok's elven and dwarven forces under the command of the elven chieftain Minthariel. Major Toldar of Arbader of the 3rd Battalion sent a team of Sergeants Foba and Yargot to organize its recapture with the help of a traitor of the Crimson Steel. After a fierce battle, Minthariel fell dead, and the majority of the dwarves began to retreat in an orderly manner. Thus the fortress was captured by Arbader and southern Darrok lost a strategic position in the forest. Exposed and vulnerable to attacks by bugbear and hobgoblin cavalry, the dwarf general Odr ordered Darrok's forces to retreat from the forest, still bitter about the punishments on his tribe. Nearly two battalions of Darrok were slaughtered in a battle that was practically a total defeat.

After the massacre at Queenswood, Arbader's forces began to advance north. They eventually crossed the forest's edge and began to plunder what was left of the Volprost Valley. Darrok's army had been disorganized but soon managed to regroup in the camps of Relmon and Irmast. Gwendoline organized three cavalry battalions with Major General Odr and Lieutenant General Mennis and they plowed through the valleys. On their way they found countless disorganized Arbader soldiers, who had been far removed from their supplies, and in the open valleys the cavalry had a huge advantage. Their war bulls trampled the soldiers who were looting in disorganization.

Within a month Arbader retreated back into the forest with huge losses exceeding six thousand. The stories from the few survivors were so horrific that no one was willing to fight Darrok's cavalry again. However, Darrok's army was also not ready to advance into the forest, so an informal truce was established for another year. The two armies prepared for the next battle and renewed their ranks, while the governor's tower at Llykavann still held out, and from time to time the guards made attacks for supplies.

In the spring of the year 4594, completely without warning, Lieutenant General Ildish led two battalions of archers to attack the fortress of Queenswood and within two days captured it. Hobgoblins were sent to retake it, but this time they came across a battalion under the command of the gnome Jade, who managed to sabotage their advance with guerrilla tactics. Thus, Darrok's regular army managed to advance south into the forest in the following days. Several battles were fought there, with mutual losses. Both armies had difficulty lining up in the dense trees, but gradually Darrok's elves gained an advantage and by the end of the year, after three battles and almost seven thousand dead to two, Arbader had abandoned the forest altogether.

Somehow, by the beginning of 4595, Darrok found himself besieging Llykavann and Arbader struggling to hold even that. The tactics of previous years seemed futile now. The losses were enormous and could not be easily replaced. King Laorwick now continued to reinforce the city by sea to withstand the siege while the cyclops kept the attackers outside the walls with huge catapults. Both armies were exhausted by the constant fighting, and so the siege was destined to last a long time.

In total, the fighting for Llykavann continued for five years, until a Peace Treaty was finally signed. It was obvious that no one could change the borders drastically anymore and for Arbader the capital was costing more than it could bear. Llykavann was returned to Darrok and the governor's garrison was called heroes of the country. Arbader retained all the lands in the southern plains of Larata and also took the city of Pangral, which it had occupied since the beginning of the war. The remaining countries of Palaurim acted as guarantors for the implementation of the Treaty and so in the year 4601 the last of Arbader's forces returned south.