---
title: War of the Titan
date: 2024-04-04
author: sfakias
tags:
  - countries/Korhond

---
> [!attributes]
> 
> > [!quote]
> >
> > | | |
> > | --- | --- |
> > | Place | [[Tarhelm]], [[South Darrok]] |
> > | Forces | at least 30000 tactical [[South Darrok]] army, 2000 dwarven [[Northern Darrok]] army vs 1000 giants and trolls |
> > | Casualties | 3 villages destroyed, 5700 dead [[South Darrok]] warriors, 6000 civilians, 150 dwarven warriors, almost 600 giants and trolls |
> > | Outcome | [[South Darrok]] defended, giant retreat |
> > | Time | 4777 |

## Attack on the Monastery of Four Winds

When [[Band of Blood and Brimstone|four travelers]] climbed one morning to the top peak of [[Tarhelm]], they had no way of knowing that their actions would be the catalyst for a series of events far greater than themselves.

And this because in this towering area, surrounded by thick clouds, was the [[Four Winds Monastery|Monastery of the Four Winds]]. Τhe nearby Cloud and Mist Giants until recently had been on friendly terms with the inhabitants of the monastery. However, their relations had intensified especially in the last period. And this because the giants had been placed under the command of [[Dumspergrond]], a mighty Titan, who by force was able to subjugate all the giant leaders, in the whole of Tarhelm. Anyone who challenged his authority fell dead. The monastery was one of the first targets, for its inhabitants could easily inform the valleys with magic and their huge birds of any expanding movement of the giants, and so it had to be out of the way quickly. Even more, Ralvia, the Queen of the Cloud Giants, knew that within the monastery were magical items and papyri of untold value that could help her and her warriors.

Thus, when the travelers found themselves at [[Queen Ralvia]]'s palace, she was already holding two monks captive and threatening to kill them unless the remaining inhabitants of the monastery handed over their leader, [[Oracle]], along with a respectable amount of magical items and scriptures. When the negotiations began, no one knew that these four travelers were the [[Band of Blood and Brimstone]], who had proven their worth time and time again. Negotiations were going on and on and didn't seem to be going anywhere. Then, the travelers made a particularly risky decision: They started running from the giants' camp, on the clouds, towards the entrance of the monastery.

However, the giants immediately responded, firing spears and arrows and causing one of the four, the massive orc undead also known as [[Domovoi]] to turn and face them. The orc seemed to literally be buried under the arrows as he slaughtered Ralvia's guards, but he was finally able to reach her, and split her torso with his massive scythe, before passing out. The other three hid in the safety of the monastery, which housed about twenty residents at the time.

The Giants' response was immediate. They killed the captives and began to besiege the monastery. Even worse, [[King Gorstein|Gorstein, the Storm King]], a towering giant from the far away [[Hoen]] arrived perhaps by teleportation and took it upon himself to lead the attack. Golstrein was the son of [[King Thogodram|Thogodram Tronertefk]], one of the leaders of the [[Defeated Army]], and was considered one of the most skilled giant warlords. And thus the attack on the monastery began. Fifty giants gathered, many riding huge falcons, and swooped from all sides on the monastery.

The ensuing battle was heard hundreds of miles away. A titanic storm broke out over the monastery, as thunder and lightning fell all around the mountains. The monastery, in addition to [[Oracle]], had very powerful wizards and priests, among them [[Rikisol]], who were able to support the defenders with powerful spells that summoned the elements of wind and snow. The temple hawks clashed with the giants' eagles, and the warriors on the ramparts undertook to prevent the giants from entering the inner court.

With heavy losses, the giants finally managed to break through. Gorstrein had reached the courtyard, where it seemed as though he would end the battle, for those standing on their feet from the defenders could not stop him. Then, in a desperate effort, [[Droghor]], the gnome of the travelers, called upon the power of an ancient brass dragon, [[Hrondoshel]], and managed to take his form. The dragon was over thirty yards long, and was able to kill Golstrein in the ensuing battle, with the remaining giants fleeing.

That's how the monastery of the Four Winds withstood the attack. The first battle against the army of giants has been won. More than that, however, this battle was to define how and when the invasion of [[South Darrok]] would begin. And no one doubts that if the opposing army had not been defeated, and had not lost a most able general, the queen, as well as many provisions, it might have sieged in the first days of the invasion at least half the southern plains as far as the southernmost towns, with disastrous consequences for the defense of the country. For the remainder of the war, most cloud giants retreated in the halls and mourned their queen, silently blaming Dumsper for throwing them to a war they never wanted.

## Invasion of [[South Darrok]]

As if the news of [[Queen Ralvia]]'s death was not enough to recruit [[Tarhelm]] giants to Dumsper's side, then the threat he posed to those chieftains who did not want to join was more than enough. A typical example is the case of [[Orol]], a respected shaman, who was murdered in cold blood by [[Bord|his own warriors]], who fought with the Titan. And as the giants gradually began to gather at [[Strümeld]], the Titan's iron fortress, he began to make plans to attack [[South Darrok]].

As his general the titan appointed [[Skalindrosh]], a huge, dark-skinned giant priest. Using metals that were abundant in the fort, the stone giants crafted armor and weapons as more and more flocked there. Soon, most of their force was fully equipped. Some tribes also brought huge flying birds, which could carry giants, while they equipped them with cases to put javelins and quivers. The remaining tribes were taken over by [[Zlo'ttan]], a Troll, and [[Rupatask]], a hill giant. From giants, finally, two more races joined the army: the Fomorians, a sadistic and ugly race, which emerged after a while from their northern caves under the leadership of the witch [[Krellantre]], and the earth giants, with brown hard skin that could to dig into the stone.

But Dumsper did not stay there, and called his children and grandchildren from [[Tartara]]. His son [[Glirmik]] Keelgrick, a hypertrophic and disgusting warrior, was the first to respond to his call. From an underground passage in [[Styx]] he brought a small group of [[Erevi]], who were used as scouts, spies and informers. He summoned various other creatures and monsters to join him in battle, even the silver sentinels of Strümeld's constructs. Finally, he called also on the priesthood of [[Amehan]], to help him: and there were a couple who responded to his call: 'A mad prophet, named [[Hossoth]], who had with him ten Death Giants and a priestess of [[Disiklek]] named [[Dogirith-Shae]].

It wasn't long before skirmishes began in the mountains. All the stonefolk were chased and forced to flee to the south, while the giants reached the outskirts of [[Mountain Anvil|Talhad]], with many battles with the dwarves. Several mountain villages were destroyed, and soon Dumsper was ready to make his first serious move: to attack [[Northwind]]. Hundreds of giants led by Skalindrosh descended from the mountains and surrounded the city, forcing its inhabitants to evacuate it immediately and flee.

An attempt by the [[Band of Blood and Brimstone]] to invade Strümeld was unsuccessful. However, with Dumsper's attention there, the Vethian [[Salkor]] found an excuse to steal the [[Roaring Diamond]], which was in Dumspergrond's possession. The titan, now free from the magic that had imprisoned him there, came out of the fortress, gathered all his army and began his campaign, which consisted of three main parts. The first was the main body of his army, which he sent to attack the cities of [[South Darrok]], the second was [[Dogirith-Sae]], who began to open a Gate in a crater to the west to summon [[demons]], and the third was [[Hossoth]] who tried with his giants and harnessing thousands of souls, to take control of a dormant stone [[Colossus]] that had been made in ancient times by the [[Rod of Stone and Steel]].

For the invasion of [[South Darrok]], he divided his army into five divisions. Skalindrosh, at the head of the first, continued to advance from the Northwind, laying waste to fields, disorganized army, and villagers in his path, until [[Ildish]] Tetharym stopped him, with great loss. For each giant it is estimated that at least thirty humans and elves lost their lives. The remnants of [[Skalindrosh]]'s army fled back into the mountains.

The second division attacked near the mouth of the [[Dansor]] River, consisting of several giants under the leadership of the giant [[Bord]], one of the most skilled rock throwers. Most of the giants were equipped with plenty of stones and were keen marksmen, leveling many villages in their path. Their advance would take them too close to Ekteron, but an army of mounted dwarves flanking them from the north managed to stop them, led by [[King Rothgrom]] Hammersmash. A second army was sent as a distraction from Ekteron, and suffered heavy casualties from the stones. At the end of the battle, a gnome named [[Jade]] Giantkiller killed a massive four-armed giant, and managed to put the remaining ones to flight. However, Jade is then killed by a stone thrown at him by Bord as he ordered the city guard to hunt them down.

The third division rushed to occupy [[Belaroth]], but the famous bard [[Labelas Lionhead]] had already gone there. He had brought with him reinforcements of several thousand, as well as elven archers, who began to rain down arrows on the trolls who tried to breach the city's defenses. [[Zlo'ttan]] personally led the attack, and a duel with Labelas left him dying, being carried back by his men. However, with the trolls there were other huge beasts and the giants of the earth, and they attacked from behind the walls. The battle lasted many hours, but Labelas was able to encourage the morale of the warriors from the front line by his example, and despite heavy losses, Zlottan was forced that evening to call for a truce and retreat.

[[Krellantre]] lerd the fourth part of the attack. The Fomorians, however, could not listen to orders and were consumed with pillaging, killing and torturing anything alive they could find. Despite [[Glirmik]] and the [[Erevi]]'s advice for caution, the army was broken into many small pieces, halting the advance and leaving them vulnerable to the counterattack ordered by Ildish. Krellantre herself met her death along with her bodyguards from the [[Band of Blood and Brimstone]], the only survivors being a few Erevi teleported away.

Dumsper personally led the last part of the attack. He gathered all the giants who had retreated from the other fronts, and sent Skalindrosh back to [[Strümeld]] to guard it. He took [[Rupatask]] with him and charged head-on at the camp of reserve warriors that [[Ildish]] had left in front of Ekteron in his absence. The giants entered the camp and slaughtered almost everyone who did not manage to run far enough: the casualties here too were at least six thousand. No one could stand before the Titan and his hammer, [[Earthquake]].

Hossoth with his giants reached the titan, but were stopped by the Band of Blood and Brimstone, a group of stonefolk and aid from [[Four Winds Monastery]], who killed them after a fierce battle, in which the archpriest [[Rikisol]] from the monastery died heroically. Even worse, when [[Aldastrio]] was able to take control of the colossus, he forced Dogirith-Shae and Glirmik to send all their otherworldly forces there, rendering them unable to aid in the battle. Dogirith, in her rage, unleashed all her arcane strength, closing the Gate to summon an [[archdemon]], a loyal servant of Disiklek, but with the help of the colossus [[Band of Blood and Brimstone|they]] managed to kill him. [[Dumspergrond]] sent his hounds there, ancient mighty beasts, but even they retreated only to be defeated in battle by [[Raefibb]] and [[Velchor]], who arrived to help.

Although only the Titan army segment was able to reach [[Ekteron]], it didn't hesitate for a moment. Dumsper had several warriors with him, and his attack on the city met no serious resistance at first. It is estimated that within two hours his army killed eight thousand soldiers and civilians, and leveled a fifth of the city's buildings, until warriors came from other fronts to confront him. The Band of Blood and Brimstone slaughtered Rupatask to reach the titan, and met Dumsper and Dogirith in the northern town square. Earthquakes, fire and lightning marked this epic battle, but in the end they managed to kill them, in a battle where a huge bronze-armored dragon appeared, only to disappear shortly after. Ekteron had survived, but at great cost, while [[Aldastrio]], [[Shizu]], and [[Droghor]] became heroes of the city.

The giants who survived retreated back into the mountains and broke away without Dumsper's leadership. [[Skalindrosh]] is rumored to have returned to [[Hoen]], carrying the Storm King's spear with him, while the dwarves captured [[Strümeld]] after negotiations with the giants. Several warriors sought [[Bord]] in the mountains, seeking revenge, but a truce was soon made between the [[South Darrok]] and the giants, as no one had the appetite for further hostilities.