---
title: Vethfall
date: 2024-11-09
author: sfakias
tags:
  - planes/Material Plane

---
> [!attributes]
> 
> > [!quote]
> >
> > | | |
> > | --- | --- |
> > | Place | [[Naerk]] |
> > | Time | 3250 |

## A Hope of Freedom

Trapped in [[Hydarax]]'s prison, [[Fallfaunt]] had accepted her fate. She could not escape to the [[Elemental Ring,]] because [[Fyrlean]] would hunt her, so she was forced to remain trapped. One day, a crack appeared in her frozen prison, and an old witch entered. Fallfaunt smiled for the first time in a long time, for she had heard the calls of this witch from the material dimension for years: It was [[Tayra]] Pavlovna, a powerful witch who specialized in ice magic that Fallfaunt had offered her in exchange for her help.

For the past few years Tayra has been preparing a promising plan. She had come into possession of the [[Eye of Veth]], a powerful osseous remnant of his from the [[Primordial War]], which like a magnifying lens could multiply the power of magic passing through it. It had been given to her by apparent strangers who had stolen it from the [[Lords of the Will]], servants of [[Yerastu]] who kept it a seven-sealed secret. No one knows how they were able to get it, or who they were, or why they gave it to her, but it was enough for Tayra to carry out her plans. Thus, he managed to break Fallfaunt's prison with a powerful spell.

## Invasion from the South

With the power of the goddess surrounding her, Tayra had to perform a ritual to summon [[Fallfaunt]] to the material plane. The material plane was the only safe place to escape her prison, which was now broken. She traveled to the south pole of [[Naerk]], where an ancient glacial dragon, [[Gridvalkur]], awoke from his eternal slumber. The legends of [[Thimvert]] say that he was as old as Naerk herself, a powerful and massive reptile that had to be imprisoned in the coldest place in the world to make sure it would not terrorize the world again.

[[Eye of Veth|Veth's eye]] awoke the dragon, who was forced to respect [[Fallfaunt]]'s power in [[Tayra]]'s person. He agreed to help her with her plans, that included reaching much further north, and performing the ceremony where she would summon the Goddess Avatar. When [[Gridvalkur]] realized the state the world had fallen into, he decided to destroy everything connected to the [[Dragonpact]], disgusted with the decline of his race. He rose from his slumber and began to destroy the few fishermen and hunters he found in his path. The earth itself froze as the two of them began to travel north.

Tayra began killing anyone in her path and resurrecting him as an [[icebringer]], a powerful undead creature. Veth's Eye emitted polar ice that froze all areas in its path and raised all creatures in its path as undead. Only a few giant races agreed to help her, and they were spared this fate, but were forced to follow her and reinforce her army. Thimvert froze and completely flattened, with the few survivors sailing north, and soon walking the now frozen water. Their leader was Yøll, a barbarian warrior trying to save what he could from his tribe.

## Ingotshield Hold

As the ever-growing Tayra army began to move north, more and more countries realized that sooner or later no one would be spared. Survivor accounts were vivid in their descriptions of the devastation, and soon communications with the South were completely cut off. Whistor and Zelgerosh were slowly freezing, and when the chill reached Kultaria no one could doubt the impending doom. [[King Sajanu]] of [[Kultaria]] called a council of war in [[Vaedar]], attended by emissaries from near and far.

Analyzing the available information, everyone present agreed that the advance of the witch's army must be stopped at all costs. A small [[Stormcrushers|scouting party]] was organized and equipped with Kultaria resources, consisting of Ashiro of Oventhart, [[Yøll]] who wanted revenge for his clan, [[Angaeradh]] from [[Athalahr]], and the sorceress [[Serafina]] from the eastern island of [[Gysara]]. Unbeknownst to them, the scouts and Yøll led them to where [[Tayra]] had gone to perform the ceremony that would summon [[Fallfaunt]]'s Avatar to the [[Material Plane]] from the [[Elemental Ring]]. They were joined by Ansiv, a mysterious and powerful wizard from Kultaria who possessed an unpredictable magic wand, the [[Wajabat]].

Tayra had attacked the dwarven fortress of the [[Ingotshield]] faction with her army. The [[icebringers]] soon broke through the valiant but futile defenses of the dwarves, and the Tayra entered the lower levels of the compound. The scouts found and freed the few surviving dwarves, but found that the Tayra had sent all manner of monsters and undead in their path as they descended to the ceremony level. Only the team's long experience and powerful spells allowed them to continue.

The final obstacle that awaited them was a huge two-headed linnorm, awakened by the commotion. It sat on dwarven treasures that it had collected for centuries and attacked the scouts with great hatred, but with a powerful spell Angerad sent it to other dimensions. Among the treasures they found some powerful relics, such as [[Vålnir]], the sacred sword of [[Valanshore]], that Yøll claimed.

Well-supplied and with morale boosted, they arrived at the final barracks which had been overrun by [[icebringers]]. The place within seconds became a fiery inferno from Serafina and Angerad, while Ashiro and Yøll began to teleport in front of the survivors and finish them off, in a necessary show of their power. With [[Ansiv]]'s help, they reached [[Tayra]] and Ashiro took the [[Eye of Veth]] from her. She managed to escape and teleport away, but she had managed to complete the ceremony. Fallfaunt's Avatar was now in the [[Material Plane]]: A huge moving iceberg, hundreds of feet high, surrounded by a blizzard many miles in radius, gradually freezing [[Naerk]] as it moved north.

## Forging the Grand Alliance

News soon reached all lands, far and wide: The Avatar of [[Fallfaunt]] was now on [[Naerk]], freezing every last trace of life in its path. Only a massive army could face such a thing, and again victory would be unlikely. Somehow, the weight fell on the leaders of the first conflict to gather all available forces and organize them. They had already become known as the [[Stormcrushers]].

[[Ashiro]], [[Serafina]] and [[Angaeradh]]'s first stop was [[Hell]], at the invitation of [[Sergonial]] himself. For his own reasons, which were very hard to guess, the devil general decided to send help to the material dimension. Sergonial knew that a mass entry of devils into the Material dimension would do more than irritate specific individuals. Therefore, instead of sending an entire army, he chose to send a select force to demonstrate the power of [[Hell]] to Mortals under the command of one of his most loyal followers, Baron Sorgoth, Hand of Sergonial. This consisted of four huge ash devils, also known as [[Pyragosh]], 500 erinyes archers and wizards, and 50 horned devils, under the leadership of [[Griannimzhiel]].

[[Yøll]], using the holy sword [[Vålnir]], crossed into the [[Evergrowing Forest]] by cutting an ethereal portal through the air. After wandering there, he found [[Volrek]] and the [[Aspects]] rooting most of the actions, with the exception of [[Drokasner]] and [[Jalerk]] fighting in the Elemental ring. Suddenly, the linnorm he had encountered in Ingotshield Hold appeared, demanding revenge for his lost treasure. Yøll defeated it in battle but spared it life in exchange for its help when needed. After a council that lasted several hours, it was agreed with [[Ashiro]] that a force from the [[Evergrowing Forest]] would join the battle, with the [[Aspects]] giving Yøll their blessing. A small group of forest creatures was sent to [[Material Plane]], with Yoll as the leader and Ashiro and the [[Raven King]], a mysterious creature in black armor, as the vice-leaders.

After a trip to [[Nargythe]], the dark elf capital of distant [[Gysara]], [[Seraphina]] confronted her treacherous mother. She tried to trap her, so she had no choice but to escape to [[Fire Quarter]]. There she found a powerful efreeti, who turned out to be her ancestor. He decided to help her in the battle she was fighting by giving her precious magical items.
A mysterious invitation brought the [[Stormcrushers]] to the [[Abyss]], in one of its most isolated parts. It looked like an ancient battlefield. There they encountered an [[archdemon]], the Conspirator general [[Sintagast]]. An ancient, hulking warrior, in rusted armor, with a mace hilt scratched by thousands of dead enemies. Forgotten at the edge of the Abyss, and scorned by his own people, he asked for a chance for one last glorious battle, and that chance was given to him. Thus, he rose from his stone throne and came to the [[Material Plane]].

The emperor's son, the brave knight-[[Prince Valanir]], was the de facto leader of [[Kultaria]]'s forces. The High Realm has rarely come to the level of mass conflict at that time, but it was very well prepared for such an eventuality. Kultaria remained the most militarily powerful force in Na'erk, largely due to its developed economy and manpower. With the help of Angerad, he was able to organize and recruit his warriors from all the provinces of the empire, and prepared four legions of warriors. Each had 2500 infantry, 300 cavalry, 500 crossbowmen, 20 wizards and 10 priests. These were experienced and trained soldiers, all armed with weapons and armor from Kultaria's best wizards, as the wealth of the empire was immense. In addition, there were the Silver Guard, Sajanu's own bodyguards, 200 elite warriors, as well as 8000 conscripted civilians. Completing the force were 350 wizards from Kultaria's magical academy and expert engineers who wielded 10 catapults and 20 crossbows with alchemical fireballs.

[[Angaeradh]] secured help from Athalahr, after several discussions with the castes. The dwarven castes were hostile to her proposal, as it would weaken their position, and Angaerad was already speaking on their behalf without their will. They decided to send a total of twenty ships with 100 warriors each, of people mostly suspected of various dirty deeds under the command of a deposed general. Many of them were considered spies, thieves or looters, but in battle they were a force to be reckoned with.

Accordingly, Ashiro brought nine companies of elven army from Oventhart. 800 veteran warriors, infantry, horsemen and archers. For the first time humans were also recruited as residents of Oventhart and began taking positions in the army to cover the loss of the elves. Finally, three companies of orcs were forcibly sent from Northart, of whom no one hoped they would return, as the enmity between the two kingdoms was still recent.

Most of the Dwarf tribes, with the exception of those that resided in Southern Darrok, took a lukewarm attitude toward the Icebringers. Few of their clan fortresses or cities were far enough away to be affected by the Winter, and they had vast food supplies and access to other strongholds through the Deeps. Most of the dwarven lords had decided to wait out the bad weather and that the Icebringers were nothing more than a bunch of barbarian raiders. But the massacre of Ingotshield changed the facts. Not only was an entire tribe slaughtered almost entirely, with not even two thousand survivors, but the Icebringers' intentions became known: They stole a mythical treasure that Klont himself had entrusted to their tribe since ancient times. They would not allow either bloodshed to go unpunished, nor dishonor in the eyes of their Gods. Although only Southern Darrok was close enough to move forces quickly by conventional means, movement is easier than the Deeps. Never before in the history of Na'erk had all the Dwarven tribes united so swiftly, and their journey was undisturbed, for not even the wildest or stupidest creature of the Deeps dared disturb thousands of Dwarven warriors. Under the leadership of King Durgan Foebreaker, came 1600 dwarven armored soldiers, and another 250 mounted on huge Falcons of Rondor.

Meanwhile, [[Kenemi]] captured and brought [[Ansiv]] to [[Yerastu]], as he had abused magic both in the Ingotshield Hold and in the past. With Ashiro's intervention in the trial, the wizard was acquitted on parole and gave Ashiro the Wajabat to show his gratitude.

Finally, the god Thorri-Rakam, after a meeting with [[Yøll]] and [[Ashiro]], bought his freedom by making armor and weapons for many dwarven warriors, as well as for the generals themselves, the famous 44 war sets.

## [[[Totem War]]

The first battle of the war was fought in the North, also known as the [[Totem War]]. The threat there was repelled with Yoll's help successfully, though with several sacrifices for the north. But this was only the first sample of what was to follow.

## The Battle

The blizzard Avatar continued on its way north, and the now massive army that had gathered began to train in various tactics. During this time, Yoll using a mighty goblet, marched south and tried to resurrect some warriors who had fallen in battle, to fight again at his side. Unbeknownst to him, however, a few weeks later, he was caught in the Avatar's blizzard and found himself trapped inside [[Tayra]]'s room. With a magic ring, he summoned [[Ashiro]] to his side, who dueled Tayra, until she teleported away when she realized the elf warrior's danger: It was said that the Winter's War could end there, with one strike of Ashiro's blade. Helping the exhausted Yoll, they managed to escape from here.

Everyone believed that the blizzard would come upon the Vaedar, and the capital was prepared for a siege. But the Avatar was seen changing course and heading towards Oromil. There was an ancient battlefield there from the battle of Eruption: [[Tayra]] wanted to resurrect all the dead there as Icebringers to strengthen her army. It was obvious that if she succeeded her army would multiply. This could not be allowed, so most of the force was directed towards the mountains leading there. The army took up battle positions in a pass there between the mountain ranges, which were then named the North and South Watchers.

The blizzard found the Grand Alliance forces ready and established in three fortified works at the outposts. In the vanguard were the orcs of Northart and the criminals of Athalahr. They were joined by the flying dwarf archers and began firing arrows at the Icebringers as they scaled the ramparts which had begun to freeze. Visibility dropped, and the dwarves flew away before the blizzard made it impossible.

The battle quickly went hand-to-hand. The orcs fought fiercely but in vain as they were frozen by the undead's attacks. Athalahr's forces were beginning to get their act together when the demon Sintagast appeared on the front lines and forced them to fight. With his massive shaft, he began to scatter those climbing the wall to pieces, and it seemed as if their advance was coming to a halt. The Icebringers began firing ice crystals and beams at him, but they didn't seem to stop him as he melted away the Taira army. When Fallfaunt's Avatar approached him, she broke off a chunk of his frozen leg and forced him to his knees. But this brought down a huge icy spear that struck him in the chest, opening a huge hole in him. The warrior fell, his wish granted.

By then the second line of defense had been prepared for the coming conflict. Wizards and priests had invoked powerful magical protections, while the Stormbreakers were at the forefront. Spells of fire and holy light fell into the chasm of the canyon below, and were lost in the blizzard with uncertain success. The snow thickened and the first lines of Darrok dwarves and Kultaria soldiers faced the Icebringers. The undead thought it would be an easy battle, after the meager resistance of the frontline warriors, but they were sorely mistaken. Their attacks had no effect on armored soldiers, experienced and protected from the cold, and their advance was halted, taking heavy casualties from the defenders' magical weapons.

Tayra to break the defense called Gridvalkur to open a rift. But Yoll was there with Ashiro, Angerad and Serafina. The ensuing battle was fierce, as the huge dragon's breath froze dozens of warriors close to the battle, but Yoll was able to keep the dragon busy long enough for Ashiro to land blows to its neck with Equilibrium, and he too countered with [[Vålnir]], when he saw that the dragon's claws could not penetrate his armor. The witches forced the dragon to the ground with storms of fire, but it didn't seem to stay still. He rose, his flesh crumbling to nothing but bones, and the battle continued, until a killing spell from Angaerad drained his life. His spirit began to hover a third time over the corpse, thirsting for vengeance, but the now exhausted fighters destroyed it.

Serafina renewed their magical defenses and Yoll and Angerad healed those nearby, just in time to take on the next wave of attack: Mammoth Peloria with Ice Giants, and from behind hordes of Icebringers. Fire rained down on them, with the warriors slaughtering anyone who came near, while the few barbarians from Thimvert entered the fray to exact revenge on their ancient enemies, the giants. Oventhart's archers created a cloud of arrows that stopped the next hordes of Icebringers, and now everyone could see the massive Avatar approaching. Undead archers hurled crystal arrows from the frozen eaves above, and Yoll summoned the linnorm from the Evergrowing Forest and flew to the ramparts.

Holding the Eye of Veth, Serafina desperately demanded the Wajabat wand from Ashiro. He gave it to her and flew off to help his warriors, who were fighting two ice worms. He then found himself at Yoll's side trying to get over the ramparts. The witch gathered her strength walking towards the Avatar, and with Wajabat's help she summoned a fiery blaze, throwing the eye at the Avatar's feet. Ansiv had warned her about the item's power.

The ensuing explosion dissolved the blizzard and from the searing heat all creatures of cold within a mile radius were sublimated. Many warriors near the witch were also burned, while further away everyone who was unprotected was covered in burns. The flash momentarily blinded many, and when their sight was restored, they saw that the Icebringers' army had been greatly reduced, while the Avatar, Ansiv, and the Stormbringers outside of Angaerad had disappeared. With renewed strength, the Grand Alliance army rushed at the remaining undead, with Prince Valanir, Angerad, and the Raven King at the forefront. The Icebringers, scorched and decimated, retreated, and the rearguard of the upper fortifications with forces of fiends and Oventhart's warriors descended to reinforce the pursuit.

Serafina's powerful spell had destroyed her, but the Avatar was not dead. A defensive spell Taira had prepared in case of emergency transported her to the South Pole, where it all began. Along with her traveled Ashiro and Yoll, who had managed to enter the frozen Avatar at the time, as well as the now defeated remnant of Fallfaunt. The witch, after a fierce battle, drew power from the strongest spells she knew, rose into the air in a storm, and froze Ashiro and Yoll into pillars of ice.

Then Yoll's gaze found in the storm Taira had summoned Drokasner, wandering wildly. Infuriating him, she asked him how he agreed to serve the Witch, and a goddess from the [[Elemental Ring]], as an [[Aspect]]. Drokasner pushed Taira aside and prepared, charging a bolt of lightning, to finish off Yoll, when he showed the snow and ice all around them, the essence of Fallfaunt. _"[[Fallfaunt|Snow's Softness]]"_ Groaned the barbarian. _"[[Drokasner|Thunderstrike]]. You are the same."_

A bolt of lightning destroyed Yoll's ice pillar and knocked him down, sprawling, but he was still alive. His armor, the Aegis of the Storm, had held. He had fallen beside the witch, and was still holding the Vålnir: With a leap, he reached beside her and drove the sword into her chest, knocking her down and impaling it into the ice. He looked at Ashiro, who had also broken free and was futilely fighting the elements of nature, ice and lightning, that were ready to destroy him.

He cried, with his last breath, and all deeds heard him. _"Flee back to [[Evergrowing Forest]]. Your purpose here is over. The Winter's War is over."_ He collapsed next to the dead Taira, his words falling heavy on his actions. The Icebringers melted away in seconds, while the acts all returned to the Evergrowing Forest: And with them [[Fallfaunt]] returned, to take the place and home she never had, among them: as if she had lived there forever.

Within two days, most of the ice had melted and the climate was restored to normal.