---
title: Edhellin
date: 2024-07-10
author: sfakias
tags:
  - factions/Edhellin
  - countries/Naryal

---
> [!attributes]
> 
> > [!quote]
> >
> > | | |
> > | --- | --- |
> > | Place | [[Sunshine]] |
> > | Time | -2700 to - |

## Origin

The [[Edhelwood]] first saw intelligent life three millenia before [[Ghost War]]. For the first two hundred years these creatures tried to find their place in the food chain and slowly, after solving the basic subsistence problems, they began to show an innate tendency in engineering, architecture and the arts. This was part cause of their incomprehensible - even for [[Malahir]] - ability to deeply perceive the reflection of [[Veth]]'s radiation on [[Naerk]], with the result that already from -2300 they were able to manipulate this radiation in a way that even some gods found it difficult to understand. This mainly involved spells where they could alter reality and affect space-time. Their name was given by Malahir and the tribe became known as Edhellin.

## Forming of the Nation

The Edhellin - known today as the ancient elves - were tall, slender with pointed ears and their skin was a very bright shade of off-white. Their society could be called utopian, since they showed absolutely no pursuit of power over other more powerless organizations, just as there was no corruption even within their own ranks. Malahir being curious to see the limits of their civilization's prime, granted them immortality on the condition that their reproduction be controlled so as not to affect the balance of the system. Also, she was always positive towards them, despite the consultations of the other gods, that this energy of hers may in the future have a very important impact for the entire [[Material Plane]].

With the emergence of new humanoid races, the Edhellin tried to integrate them socially as well as materialistically, but noticing that the other races lacked the innate ability to channel magic to the extent that the Edhellin could and this quickly put the humans in a state of fear and inferiority to the ancient elves. However, the ancient elves never sought to exploit this superiority over the other races.

## Prosperity

This peace, however, was to be brought to an end by a sequence of disruptive events that no one could have foreseen. It all started in -2000, where [[Voolthow]], recognizing the terrifying and potentially infinite capacity for continuous evolution of the Edhellin, gave the Elf [[King Erlamin]] a crystal ball that later became known as the orb of deception or better known as the orb of darkness: [[Vaelasil]].

Erlamin was one of the first Edhellin and his wisdom was acknowledged by all the ancient elves. And his magical ability scared [[Voolthow]] himself, as he believed that in a millenia, he could even pose a danger to the power of the gods. So he took the initiative to give him the magic orb, which in addition to unlimited power, gave its owner the characteristics of arrogance and corruption, concepts that the ancient elven language didn't even have words for to be able to interpret.

From -2000 to -1800 the heyday of the Edhellin society grew exponentially and reached its absolute peak. At that time, they reached a milestone of the powerful reality/time - alteration spell cast by the powerful wizard [[Sylris]] to turn back time 7 days for for the elves to prevent a fire that burned half of the [[Edhelwood]] forest and almost completely destroyed the fauna of the area. The Elves at the same time were able to create a realm, within Edhelwood, in the deepest part of the forest that was connected to the [[Evergrowing Forest]], and many Edhellin could come and go between the two planes at will.

## Corruption

In the middle of the next century the first signs of the orb's influence began to be felt, as the Elf king forced very strong wizards to work on creating powerful magical weapons. This also had social ramifications, as a series of policies discredited the strongest among the Edhellin as the elite of the realm, and in less than 100 years the social stratifications within the ranks of the elves were now noticeable. Little by little they started to use other tribes as subordinates without of course a militaristic confrontation, since no one could even imagine that they could stand up to the mighty elves.

During this century, five different factions were formed, each with its own agenda and trying to gain more and more of the Elf king's trust. The names of the leaders of each faction were as follows: [[Thelar]], [[Sarfir]], [[Aela]], [[Virdithas]] and [[Keldan]]. An unprecedented power play begun and even if there was never any fighting between the factions, espionage was taking its first steps and assassinations were already on the agenda of some of them.

Seeing this anomaly that was eroding the kingdom day by day, the powerful wizard Sylris called the faction leaders and the king to a council. He addressed them inquiring why all this strife was happening and what it was for. He then saw the king rise menacingly and accuse him of betraying the [[Edhellin]] nation, as he believed that the only reason the council was called is because of Sylris' personal ambitions.

Sylris coldly replied, _"You are out of your mind! This orb you hold in your hands will ultimately bring about the destruction of our race!"_

Erlamin's mocking reply was, _"Really, you think you're going to influence my government with baseless accusations? Is this all happening because you want it to? The orb to come into your possession?"_

Erlamin recognizing how dangerous a rival Sylris could make for his power, revoked him as a traitor to the Edhellin, an ally of humans and dragons (as he maintained excellent relations with dragons as well as human kings). Thus Sylris became the first exile of the [[Edhellin]] at the year -1603.

Just a few days after the council failed, a bewildered Sylris, trying to find a solution to the impasse in which Edhellin society has fallen, seeked out his good friend [[Nentha]] -an all-wise and powerful gold wyrm- for advice. The meeting took place on [[Sunshine]] island where Nentha still lives today. [[Nentha]] as he was informed of the situation, decided that the Elven king should be dethroned immediately, because his thirst for power would cause problems that would become uncontrollable and possibly a war of enormous scope could be caused that would leave the whole Naerk ruined. Therefore, the solution he proposed had to be drastic, without at the same time running the risk of a diplomatic episode between the dragons and the Edhellin. Therefore, he came up with the idea that Sylris would have to steal the orb himself and learn how to use it. So Nentha's identity had to be kept a secret until the end of the mission.

## Sylris' Plans

The preparation for stealing the orb took almost 50 years. In -1550 Sylris was ready to make his move. This was made really easy since Sylris was the strongest time mage to ever set foot in [[Naerk]]. So he returned to the Edhellin realm and before the Elf king could attack him himself, Sylris stopped time for about 5 minutes to remove the orb from the Elf king's possession. He immediately escaped and the greatest manhunt the world had ever seen took place. Hundreds of Edhellin had swarmed all over Naerk trying to locate Sylris in order to retrieve the orb. There was absolutely no safe place for Sylris and as if it wasn't enough that he had to find safe haven, he also needed time to learn how to use the orb.

Nentha and Sylris' first thought was to destroy the orb. Alas, even with the most powerful spells that these powerful entities had at their disposal, destroying the orb was not possible. Therefore, Sylris' only choice was to learn how to use this powerful weapon and quickly, before the war breaks out. Being desperate, Nentha had a very risky idea that could, under conditions, work. Nentha had no special abilities to perform powerful space-time magic spells, but he knew very well how the planes outside the material plane are structured. So the two of them cast a spell that even by the standards of the gods was completely unimaginable. They created a hole in space-time and went into a new orbit with it. The spell became known in history as Temporal Streamline Jump.

The result of this action was that they were washed into a parallel reality where the concept of time had no meaning at all. There, they began to study the orb's properties and conduct experiments. It occurred to them to abandon the orb in this dimension and go back, but in the end it was never an option, since the corruption of the Elf king had reached such a state that the start of war seemed inevitable. The only way out was his death. But there was one main problem. In addition to being immortal, the Elf king possessed such powerful destructive magic that it would be a great challenge even to Nentha's strength. Besides, Sylris was no warrior. He had never been involved in developing destructive magic.

After hundreds of years of being in the other dimension (having only spent moments on the [[Material Plane]]) they came to realize that the orb's true use was its ability to open vortices in the transparent mantle that separated the Material Plane from the [[Etherial Plane]]. This gave them automatically an idea of ​​how they could proceed in the battle. The centuries that passed until he learned to use the orb corrupted him enough, but with the help of Nentha he managed to keep his sanity and not be distracted by his purpose. But it would be safe to say that Sylris now had less pure intentions and more of a thirst for revenge on the [[King Erlamin|Elf king]]. Several months more had to be spent by Nentha and Sylris until they could find the right timeline again and return to Naerk (after Sylris had learned to manipulate the orb). The preparations were over and the most important battle in Naerk's ancient history was about to begin.

Sylris made his presence known to the Elf king through Nentha's telepathy, informing him to come in person to negotiate in [[Edhelwood]] forest. He informed him that he had two days to appear or he would destroy the orb. The other condition was that he could only bring the faction leaders and no one else, unless he wanted Sylris to disappear with the orb using time magic and destroy it along the way. This was certainly a bluff, but the Elf king was in no position to risk it. As soon as the king received the message he was driven mad by his hatred for Sylris. He tried to restrain himself from completely destroying his kingdom. A subject of his was blackmailing him and there was nothing he could do to stop him. So he called the faction leaders and informed them that they should be ready for battle the next day. The Elf king calmed down in the next few hours from his rage and although he understood that he would be playing in the enemy's territory, he thought that he had not something to fear, since even Nentha could be dealt with by the six elves without serious casualties. Sylris was not a threat to any of them, as his knowledge of destructive type magic did not exceed that of an average Edhellin. The meeting between the six Edhellin and Sylris-Nentha took place only a week after the orb was stolen. The atmosphere was tense, although neither side wanted to show their irritation.

## Day of Wild Magic

As the Elf king saw Nentha, immediately taunted him and said _"Are you so afraid of me that you create all this nonsense, are you postponing your impending death? Do you still think you rule the most powerful country in Naerk? Whatever happens here today, know that the Edhellin will rule over the dragons if you continue to cause trouble in my rule. From this encounter, I have absolutely nothing to lose. I couldn't say the same for you, of course."_

Nentha did not respond in the same style to the Elf king's challenges. He spoke to him lovingly and said, _"No one here wants to dethrone you. All we want is for you to come to your senses. You are leading your people into impending war with your actions. Dragons are no threat to your kingdom. The only threat to it is you and the other five around you."_

[[Virdithas]] jumped in and replied _"You dragons fear our evolution and try to enslave us with insidious methods. I don't even understand why we're sitting and talking to a dragon and his ruffian."_ He got up from the table and casted a powerful electricity spell aimed at Sylris.

Nentha put his wing up as a shield and moved away from the table with Sylris. He told him that he would be able to keep the elves busy for a few minutes until Sylris could finish casting a powerful sealing spell with the help of the [[Vaelasil|orb]].

Sylris then stopped time with a powerful spell to cast the infamous spell "Rift in the Veil", that during his research he had gained expertise with it. Nentha fought to delay the elves for a few minutes. When time continued to "flow" again, the elves noticed that Sylris has disappeared and they realized that the dragon is simply buying time and Sylris is somewhere close. Immediately the Elf king ordered the five wizards to find Sylris and mentioned that he will arrange the dragon. Nentha without wasting any time breathed out a hot wave of fire which was a very soft shade of blue, as Nentha's fires were capable of burning even creatures that lived in volcanic regions. Erlamin's response was immediate. Before the fire could reach him and the five wizards, a translucent barrier of magical energy appeared in front of them. Virdithas seeing the opening created by the Elf king called a massive wave of plasma that descended from the heavens and crashed into the dragon with such force that it was discernible within hundreds of miles.

Nentha let out a scream so loud that it caused massive oscillations in the trees of [[Edhelwood]]. [[Aela]] summoned hundreds of eyes to surround the forest to find Sylris. Sarfir created a strange illusion where the distribution of space had changed and the dimensions were reversed. Erlamin created an orb of frost and sent it furiously at the dragon, who used his left wing to deflect it, where it landed causing significant damage. A barrage of attacks were directed at the dragon and most of them found their mark. Nentha took his time to find the attackers and adapt to their spells, while his magic-resistant scales protected him. By this time the five wizards had left the place and were trying to find Sylris, when they noticed that their spells were not enough to put the dragon out of battle quickly.

The battle of the Elf king with Nentha was carried over to the air. The Elf king locked the dragon in a huge prismatic orb about a mile in diameter, but the dragon with a mighty flutter broke it into infinite silver shards and at the same time breathing a huge cloud of smoke which enveloped half of Edhelwood. This spell was part of the dragon and Sylris' strategy. They figured it would buy enough time. And indeed, Aela's eyes were already useless. But the smoke was not enough for the Elf king and he found time to transform into a huge red dragon and bite Nentha's neck. Nentha began to bleed, but managed to push the Elf king away with his claws and wings. Over the next minutes a battle ensued between the two dragons, turning the most of the western side of Edhelwood to ashes and making the place look more like a desert than a temperate forest. The battle was leaning towards the dragon, but without being able to gain clear control of the situation. When he found time he attacked the other wizards to get them to engage with him, but the bait did not find a target.

On the other side the wizards managed to counter Nentha's smoke, with a slow spell cast by [[Thelar]] that created a black typhoon hundreds of yards tall and swept magic mist and trees away with it. When the landscape cleared, the mages had not been able to find Sylris. The only one who continued to search for Sylris was Aela. The remaining four mages converged on the Elf king to help him defeat the dragon.

As the Elf king noticed them, he asked them if they recovered the orb. When he received a negative answer, he shouted at them with all his might. _"You fools, what are you doing? search underground, in the sky, everywhere!"_ Then, they noticed in the sky a huge ball of black energy, something they had never seen before, and the Elf king detected Sylris due to the increased senses provided by the dragon form.

Immediately Erlamin ordered the wizards to stop Sylris, but it was too late as their spells were automatically pulled from the black ball of energy and made it even bigger, reaching two hundred feet radius. Sylris to their awe flew by harnessing gravitational waves from other dimensions. He addressed Erlamin shouting loudly: _"Your era comes to an end, old friend."_

Erlamin felt terrified as he was unsure what the possible functions from the black magic orb hovering above them were. The four wizards tried to reach Sylris, but [[Nentha]] like lightning was in front of them and with a powerful flutter, he pulled them away from Sylris saying _"Now you stay there and observe. Any interference is fruitless."_

Sylris directed the black orb into the heavens until it collided with the invisibility cloak, resulting in a chaotic explosion, which causes earthquakes and hurricanes throughout [[Naerk]] with strength that decreased linearly with distance from the epicenter of the explosion. The sky darkened and as time passed the color lightened until it took on a shade of a blue lighter than the sky. A vortex had formed at the point of the explosion, with raw energy swirling in irregular shapes. The transparent cloak that protected Naerk from Veth's radiation now showed a crack. Spirits began to invade the world of Naerk which was not foreseen by the dragon. But this could not affect their plans. Sylris creates a crystal ball, where it acted like a very small planet with a huge gravitational pull. This orb drew into it all the spirits, the Elf king, the five wizards, the dragon and Sylris. This spell was much more powerful than its original version. Sylris assumed that the rift in the mantle brought with it the [[Day of Wild Magic]].

When he was sure all the targets were inside the sphere he guided it into the slot. They suddenly found themselves in a colorless, odorless, weightless dimension, surrounded by incredible amounts of energy that tortured their bodies through constant impacts. The sphere moved forward for a few minutes, until they met two realms. Nentha explained to them that they are in the [[Ethereal Plane]] and that these two realms are different planes as they border the ethereal plane. These kingdoms belonged to [[Malahir]] and [[Voolthow]]. While the sphere was moving in the ethereal plane the Edhellin mages couldn't react due to the gravitational waves. Their immortal bodies allowed them to survive, but even actions like speaking were incredibly painful.

The time had come for the plan to reach its final stage. Sylris created a demiplane, which he named Eruvim. Sylris then stoped time, weakened the gravitational pull, pulled Nentha out with force magic, and allowed time to flow smoothly again. The sphere is imprisoned within the demiplane. The demiplane's gravitational pull is tens of times that of Naerk, and time on it has absolutely no meaning - practically, a timeless existence with no exits or entrances.

Sylris and Nentha had emerged victorious from this altercation. They returned to Naerk and had one last obstacle to face until their total victory. Initially, they had to close the rift in the transparent mantle to put an end to the travel between the two planes, mainly for the spirits, but at the same time they had to seal the spirits that were rapidly entering the opposite bank of the rift. Sylris quickly found the solution to this problem. He would cast the spell he had used to save Edhelwood from the fire. Of course, his task had become more difficult, as he had to not simply turn back time, but some events to remain as true. Sylris felt confident in his abilities as he had the power of the orb and the open rift on his side. Sylris started immediately casting the spell, a cast that lasted many hours and drew attention to himself by several powerful entities.

This day had dramatically changed the world of Naerk and the eyes of the gods were on Sylris. Voolthow observed the council and the battle and he couldn't wait to find out how Sylris would handle this crisis and learn the secrets of his time-space magic. Almost a day had passed since the battle began, without any unforeseen events. Voolthow carefully observed the ceremony of the Edhellin mage, but was driven mad because he could not understand how it affected the radiation and changed their nature. Around Sylris glowed beams of energy with dozens of shades of different colors. The sounds of the ritual along with the gentle movements of Sylris produced an lullaby effect with calmness in the atmosphere. This scene irritated Voolthow even more, until the moment came for him to act. He descended in the form of a tall and husky man who wielded an ax over seven feet. He didn't look lordly but he was ready to start a fight.

Sylris looked up to see a gigantic figure emerge from the shadows, wearing a goat skull mask with two holes that draw in light from all the surrounding space, and Sylris was lost in shadows pulling at him. He had already stopped the ritual and his hands began to shake. This was how he had imagined it would feel if he touched the black ball of energy with his hand when he cast the rift in the Veil spell.

Nentha, sensing Sylris's state of mental imbalance, chose to speak first. _"To what do we owe this honor, lord of the Shadows?"_
_"Your young elf friend has pulled it off. He wields magic that even we gods dare not approach. It's time to face the consequences of your actions. This game ends now!"_ Voolthow picked up Sylris with one hand, snatched the orb from him and flung him away.
Seeing Voolthow's action Nentha asks him with irritation _"Since when do the gods have the right to assert their power on the [[Material Plane]]?"_
_"Since your partner stole my personal gift to the Elf King."_
Sylris heared the words of the god of Shadow and found the mental reserves to stand up to him. _"YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ELRAMIN'S DISASTER. YOU ARE THE ONE WHO IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MY ACTIONS. So since you want so much to impose order, take this shattered orb with you so we never see it again!"_

Just as Voolthow was about to give his angry reply to the Edhellin mage, [[Yerastu]] appeared before him. An anthropomorphic creature in white and blue robes, twenty foot tall, with a pair of massive wings emerging from its back, created from raw energy. Wonder was painted in Sylris's eyes as, to him, the most absurd thing about Yerastu's invasion was not his descent into the material plane, nor the massive beams of light that surrounded him, but the lack of a face beneath his imposing hood. Accompanying his terrifying presence was a massive execution sword that seemed made not for the needs of a battle but for the dismemberment of souls crossing the Ethereal Plane.

All the momentum Voolthow had gained was suddenly lost. Yerastu took the floor and addressed the Shadow god in a stern tone. _"Who gave you the right to intervene? You have seconds until you finish your dialogue with these mortals and return to your plane."_
Voolthow made a sudden move absorbing a large amount of Vaelasil's magical energy and threw the orb to Sylris' side: _“This orb will remain in the possession of mortals as its power flourishes, corrupting its master's soul. The orb belongs to you. Manage it as you will"_ as he fled for the [[Shadow Plane|Shadow Realm]] with a loud chuckle.

Yerastu informed the dragon and Sylris that he would close the rift himself and that in their next meeting he would not be so kind, in a serious yet stern tone. Before heading off to seal the rift he replied to himself with critical speech: _"Malahir was wrong, elves were not to be given immortality and your actions showed it. Your period of grace is over!"_

In less than a moment the rift had been sealed and Yerastu had disappeared from their sight. Sylris could see the appearance of a new translucent veil beneath the existing one. The day of Wild Magic had ended.

## Aftermath

After these events, Sylris and Nentha began to worry about Yerastu's warning, as well as the appearance of the new translucent veil but they did not have the luxury of time, Naerk was rapidly changing with severe implications to them as well as the Edhellin society. The societies of humans, elves, and orcs were stunned at the sight of the new geological conditions that had been caused by the actions of the wizard and the dragon. Thousands were victims of earthquakes, high tides and typhoons. A valiant effort to restore the damaged civilizations was necessary as the [[Edhelwood]], [[Tithlon]] and [[Allwick]] were completely destroyed. [[Green Hills]] and the [[Paraselt]] mountains suffered major landslides resulting in the blockade of [[Tarthyn]] from the south. [[Oromil]] suffered minor damage and casualties.

## Society Reform

Sylris returned to [[Ryador]] after saying goodbye to Nentha as he left for [[Sunshine]]. He did not abdicate his responsibilities by telling the full story to his people. He gave a speech where he tried to lift the morale of the Edhellin and made clear his motivations for these choices. He elaborated his vision for the future: to abolish kingship -as the seat of the throne had been left vacant- and to establish a new experimental model where all decisions would be made jointly. This process required the implementation of a model system by introducing written rules with the primary condition being the prohibition of slavery to any people. Violation of this would result in lifelong exile. Finally, he stated that [[Vaelasil]] would remain in his possession -as he was the only one, so far, who has managed to resist its corruption- until a solution to its destruction is found. If during this time perversions or anomalies were observed, which contradict his proclamation speech, then the people will have the obligation to quarantine him or even proceed with his execution. A large part of the people cheered for this socio-political starting point, while at the same time, a more shadowy side, remained silent. The majority of these belonged to the former faction of [[Virdithas]], which held the greatest privileges during the period of the previous rule.

From the year -1550 to -1400 elven society seemed to adapt to social changes even as the [[Virdithas]] faction tried to create trouble by maintaining their espionage methods. Around -1450 signs of elven mortality made their first appearance. Surprisingly, the Edhellin came to terms with this major change without much tension and accusations on the face of Sylris.

