---
title: Rod of Stone and Steel
date: 2024-03-09
author: sfakias
---

## Creation

In ancient times, the [[Vethians]] sought to explore the limits of their power. As descendants of [[Veth]], they were innately inclined towards magic and could in fact very easily tame it and produce unique and powerful effects. But, as they are by nature unpredictable and have no specific moral code, in many experiments that they performed and in various of their creations and discoveries, their consequences could not be foreseen from the beginning, and many spells and objects derived from them are even today a source of desire, fear and awe for many.

One of the most powerful Vethians, also known as [[Rhekvethor]], is also the creator of the Rod of Stone and Steel. Rhekvethor, a being of unimaginable power and a friend of [[Maeronian]], the god of magic, loved to travel to the most distant places and dimensions. Obviously, he wasn't well-received everywhere and was constantly changing his form, a skill he was particularly good at. He gathered knowledge and experience from many places, while befriending various powerful wizards and creatures from other dimensions in his many wanderings. And one day Rhekvethor set a goal in his life.

His dream was to be able to control the element of earth, specifically stone, minerals, metals and subsoil. To be able to make whatever he wants from these materials in colossal scale. And so he spent an infinite amount of time, using all his resources and experiences to make a scepter that would allow him to accomplish his goal.

Obviously, even for him, such a process was not simple. The materials, the construction and the ritual, each stage, required a lot of time and effort. First, he asked the gnomes who lived in [[Kelzadam]] and were craftsmen in stone, to make 5 [[Varyads]] for the hilt: Precious stones derived from Larvite, a rock from the bowels of the earth. Some very specific types of Mithril and Adamantine, infused with Veth's own blood, had to be added to the construction of the head. Rhekvethor, to construct the scepter, enlisted the help of three of his friends: [[Salkor]], [[Tavethir]], and [[Bodrig]].

The master craftsman, who carved the shape of the scepter, was the latter: an extraterrestrial from Kelzadam, who settled near volcanoes and the [[Deeps]]. Bodrig had a great reputation, for he had forged some of the finest weapons, such as the [[Shiji-sha]] katana. But Bodrig, in order to increase the scepter's power, added to the skeleton a bone from [[Ashatai]], an old friend of his who had become an angel from his deeds. What's worse, 2 scrolls stolen from a powerful wizard of the [[Lords of the Will]] were required during assembly. So even though they kept its creation a secret, they made a lot of enemies to build it.

[[Salkor]] then took the reins with Tavethir. The former, a young but promising [[Vethians|Vethian]] full of vivaciousness and curiosity, and the latter a renowned elf, warrior and craftsman. But the second, loyal to [[Yerastu]], did not learn all the details of the construction, because the others did not trust him, and there was a danger that he would betray them if he did possess the knowledge. The two of them carved the runes on the scepter in three languages: Ancient, Vethian and Terran. They then cast various magic spells, which combined the individual materials and gave the scepter its basic properties.

The scepter was then taken by Salkor, where he had to find his main source of power to make it work. His research led him to an ancient, deep cave, where there was a diamond that constantly vibrated with power. It was a point where countless [[Tarov]]'s [[Leylines]] passed, and it had gained immense power underground. But there was one major problem: This diamond could not be cut out of place by any means. Salkor then begged the titan [[Dumspergrond]] to help him. This titan had a huge hammer, which he called [[Earthquake]], precisely because it created seismic vibrations when he struck it. The titan apparently thought he would get the diamond for himself, so he accepted.

With his hammer he struck the diamond with all his might. The diamond was cut from the rock, releasing incredible energy and destabilizing the entire mountain. A huge earthquake immediately followed, cutting the [[Tarhelm]] mountain range in two, destroying countless orc and dwarven settlements on the mountain, and creating a huge chasm across the mountains. This destruction enraged [[Tarov]], who cursed Dumspergrond to never see the light of the sun again and be forever trapped on earth. Salkor had of course taken the diamond and disappeared. Try as Tarov might, she couldn't find out what happened to the diamond when she realized the titan didn't have it.

The final stage of creation was the ceremony that would incorporate the diamond into the scepter. Rhekvethor paid great attention to every last detail and recited ancient words of power in the runic tongue, and created a hot silver dust of magic, which the scepter greedily swallowed and joined with the diamond.

This is how the Rod of Stone and Steel came to be.

## [[Unnamed Judgement]]

The unethical (to some) acts that [[Rhekvethor]] had to do to create the [[Rod of Stone and Steel]] piqued the interest of many creatures, and they began to track his movements. Rhekvethor realized a major drawback of the rod: it could not leave [[Naerk]] and travel to other dimensions. This, though it troubled him, by no means prevented him from using it. He built [[Str端meld]], a huge fortress of metal, as well as an underground labyrinth beneath it, and filled it all with silver sentry constructs. He then built a huge bridge, connecting the two sides of [[Roflar Strait]], to create the future cities of [[Sapurr]] and [[Flair]] at its shores.

Many had already been disturbed by his actions, but when [[Rhekvethor]] began to build a huge stone colossus, decisive action took place. The servants of Sigard, Yerastu, and Laerion found him while he was finishing the colossus and attacked him while he was busy with the ceremony. His associates, [[Tavethir]] and [[Salkor]], tried in vain to stop them, and all three were eventually captured. After a short discussion, the servants of the gods of justice decided to judge them.

The trial that followed was called the Unnamed Judgment. As everyone involved there didn't want anyone else learning about Rod's immense power, they made sure that it wasn't archived and that no one else would learn of the events that took place there. Judges took charge of nine creatures. Four Archangels: [[Lo-Ukmasid]], [[Lu-Peng]], [[La-Vermenel]] and [[Li-Tithlamir]]. Three priests, one for each god, of whom the famous [[Hikari]] was the high priest of [[Yerastu]]. Lastly, two dragons, the brass [[Hrondoshel]] and a blue one, which remains unknown.

Tavethir was called first to confess his actions. Although initially hesitant, he eventually recounted the full timeline of events, leaving no doubt as to his truthfulness, incurring the wrath of Salkor and Rhekvethor. The two were summarily sentenced, and imprisoned in the bowels of the earth, with the help of the crystal dragon [[Menthdravor]], who took over as their guardian. Rhekvethor was decided to be too dangerous to leave, and they decided to imprison him forever: As for Salkor, they decided to imprison him for five centuries, as he was not that dangerous in their eyes. Since then, those who learned about the trial have felt that it lacked objectivity, although some see this as reasonable given the circumstances.

The [[Roaring Diamond]] was detached from the rod and given to a tribe of [[Tarov]]-worshiping subterranean creatures for safekeeping, while the Rod was hidden in a dimension that communicated only with [[Tartara]], in a deep place with a constant whirlwind protecting it. Tavethir was assigned to guard the only passage leading there from the [[Material Plane]], as a chance to atone for his actions, cursed to an eternity of duty. Finally, the four angels set their rings to be a key to the rod: so that even if someone passed through it, he could not use it. And the [[Solarium Rings]] of the four archangels were given to the four corners of the horizon, in safe hands. As the millennia passed, everyone forgot about these events, and the few who knew the truth became fewer.

## [[Salkor]]'s Plan

When Salkor was released, he began making plans to reassemble the Rod and free Rhekvethor. He went to [[Maeronian]], and asked for his help, and he offered it: The ability to wield powerful magic whilst remain undetected. Maeronian did not know exactly what had happened, and Salkor in order to avoid his questions told him that it was Rhekvethor's wish. With his newfound powers, Salkor began to investigate what had happened to the Rod, but was unable to find out. He wandered aimlessly for a while, until he began to collect sources.

As the centuries and millennia passed, Salkor was able to learn the location of the [[Solarium Rings]], the Rod, and the [[Roaring Diamond]]: But he knew that he would have to move slowly and carefully, so as not to reveal himself: and that when he would take one of them, the rest would be increasingly difficult: therefore, when he took one, he must have some means of taking them all. And so he spent a long time finding holes in the defence of each individual guarding place, and organizing his plan in detail. He went so far as to find [[Tavethir]] and they spoke again after some time, and while Tavethir was bound by the trial, he was able to give Salkor information about the rings, as he knew the injustice that had been done to him and was tired of the eternal burden of custody. Yerastu punished Tavethir with death for his betrayal, which he embraced as a final relief.

It started from the south, from a random event: The ring was kept in a civilization of gnomes underground, which had been ruined years ago. But it was protected by a spell: only an honest gnome could take it from where it was. And he happened to pass by after many years: [[Droghor]] Firan, with the [[Band of Blood and Brimstone]]. The ring, as no one knew what it was, was put up for auction: yet it was recognized and bought by an honorable knight, named [[Eberk]] Ironlance. Salkor waited for him to make his move, and took the ring after warning the Band not to interfere with his plans.

In a sudden move, he took the ring, a few months after finding it. At the same time, he had sent the thief [[Saskath]] to the [[Temple of the Sapphire Guard]], in the west, where the second ring was kept, and he was able to successfully steal it, as he was one of the best at his job. At last, he taunted Dumsper that if he broke the Moaning Diamond a second time, he would break the curse: and he believed it, and going to [[Buldigazdar]], guarded by Bodrig and other servants of Tarov, broke its protections with [[Earthquake]], his hammer, and took it to [[Str端meld]]: But with the power of the diamond he was gradually able to break the curse [[Tarov]] had placed on him: Something Salkor was unaware of.

Salkor's next move was to cross the passage leading to [[Tartara]] and take the rod. He got past the salamander [[Innorf]]'s defenses and eventually entered the tornado he was in, with the Band in tow, and took it, in a complex series of events that led to the death of the wizard [[Aldastrio]] and the intervention of demons who also wanted a share of the spoils. But Aldastrio came back to life, with the help of [[Tarov]], and was given a new purpose: to protect the [[Roaring Diamond]] and the creatures of the earth.

The guardians of the rings quickly became alarmed. The blue dragon Akerosoth from the Dragonpact, who had the third ring, found the Band and they went to Ilistair, the temple of [[Yerastu]], where the last ring was. High priest Dorian Sheidahan with his priesthood and warriors took it upon themselves to guard them. All the while, a detachment was sent from the Temple of the Sapphire Guard trying to find out what became of the ring, but their efforts were ineffective. And that's because their leader, Gethsered, was a traitor, and misled the rest of the faithful into his dark plans.

[[Klemnestron]] had learned of the events, for a loyalist of his, the ancient red dragon [[Solusmeir]], had led the Band to [[Innorf]]. Wanting to benefit from the story as well, he agreed to help Salkor and allied himself with Gethsered, in exchange for the Rod being used in his own interests. The [[Bloodscale]] under the supervision of Solusmeir made various moves to stop the Band, but eventually Gethsered told them that the rings were with Ilistair. Solusmeir with Foervian, the leader of the Bloodscales, gathered dragons and soldiers and attacked the temple with fury.

The ensuing battle was fierce, but few could stand against Solusmeir's fury. Moreover, several priests were absent to fight in southern Darrok the Titan Dumsper, who had begun his invasion. The dragon was about to level the monastery when Shizu from the Band called [[Hikari]], who was guarding [[Rhekvethor]], to protect the temple. Hikari killed Solusmeir in a wall-shattering duel, but the Bloodscales managed to get the rings from the injured Dorian and leave in time. The monastery was saved, but the cost was enormous.

Meanwhile, Salkor took advantage of an attack that had occurred on Str端meld by the Band to grab the [[Roaring Diamond]] from the Titan. When the [[Bloodscale]] gave him the two rings, he went off somewhere, activated his protective spells, and reassembled the Rod of Stone and Steel. With his help, he began to head into the bowels of the earth, towards Rhekvethor's prison. He eluded [[Menthdravor]] who was guarding him and as Hikari had returned to the Fortress of the Just, Yerastu's palaces, he reached the prison unhindered and despite the efforts of Droghor and Menthdravor to stop him, he broke through the prison and reached Rhekvethor.

In this effort, a powerful earthquake was created, which awakened a huge creature of fire, forgotten in the depths of the earth since the [[Primordial War]]. In a titanic battle that ensued, Rhekvethor with the Rod's help managed to kill it, before it blasted the entire surface with lava. But Yerastu sent some of the strongest Kenemi to stop Rhekvethor and Salkor. These were successfully dealt with, causing Yerastu to soon give up his efforts: chaos had won.

The Vethians went after the death of the Titan Dumsper to Str端meld, where they discussed with Shizu, Droghor and Aldastrio about the future of the [[Rod of Stone and Steel]]. They wanted to leave the [[Material Plane]] and couldn't take it with them, but they couldn't let it be destroyed or unused. Eventually it was decided, with [[Tarov]]'s agreement and [[Yerastu]]'s tolerance, that the wizard Aldastrio would take the Rod, and use it with a newly formed order: The [[Order of Blood and Brimstone]]. And Salkor and Rhekvethor returned to [[Zinctizuctra]], and since then little has been heard of them: though Salkor is rumored to visit Aldastrio now and then.

